 T W E N T Y - S E V E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IN T ERNA T IONAL MONETARY F U ND TW E N T Y - S E V E N TH A N N U AL R E PORT ON EXCHANGE RE STR ICT IONS 1976 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 14, 1976 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Seventh Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ H. JOHANNES WITTEVEEN Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART I 6 6 6 3 in Re s t r ic t ive I. Introduction II. Ma in Deve lopmen ts Practices Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxa- tion 7 Advance Import Deposits 8 Measures Affecting Import Payments 9 State Trading 9 Measures Affecting Exports 9 Restrictions on Current Invisibles . . .. 11 Multiple Currency Practices 11 Bilateral Payments Arrangements . . .. 13 Measures Affec t ing Capital 13 Gold 16 III. Regional Arrangements 16 Appendix 22 PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Benin Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cambodia * Cameroon Canada Central African Republic 27 29 32 37 47 53 58 62 64 69 72 78 82 84 85 98 100 103 106 108 * The Fund has not received f r om the au tho r i t ies of Cambodia the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1975. vn Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia . Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwait Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Page 112 116 123 128 138 141 144 147 152 155 160 165 168 170 172 175 179 188 191 193 197 202 208 210 211 214 217 218 219 220 223 235 238 242 245 250 255 261 265 270 275 278 282 286 288 290 292 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Libyan Arab Republic Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia CONTENTS Page 294 297 300 303 307 309 311 313 316 319 323 326 331 334 338 340 344 348 351 352 357 359 361 364 369 376 381 382 385 387 388 391 . . 394 397 Page 400 South Afr ica South Viet-Nam * Spain 405 Sri Lanka 410 Sudan 416 Surinam 419 Swaziland 422 Sweden 424 Switzerland 428 Syrian Arab Republic 433 Tanzania 436 Thailand 439 Togo 442 Tr in idad and Tobago 445 Tunisia 449 Turkey 453 Uganda 460 United Arab Emirates 463 United K ingdom 465 Un i ted States 477 Upper Volta 484 U ruguay 488 Venezuela 493 Western Samoa 496 Yemen Arab Republic 498 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 499 Yugoslavia 501 Zaire 508 Zambia 511 Analytical Appendix 515 * The Fund has not yet received f r om the a u t h o r i t i es of South V ie t -Nam the i n f o rm a t i on requ i red for a desc r ip t ion of the ex- change and t r a de system as of December 31, 1975. V l ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 The dominating development in the world economy during 1975 was the deepening and spreading of the international recession and the beginning of its reversal in the second half of the year. In the indus- trial world, real output declined by an estimated 2 per cent, following a cessation of growth in 1974, and unemployment rates rose to the highest levels witnessed in recent decades. The resultant drop in aggregate demand had a severe impact on interna- tional trade, interrupting its growth for the first time in many years. In terms of volume, trade was some 6 per cent lower in 1975 than in 1974. The trough of the recession appears to have been passed toward the middle of 1975, and resumption of growth in the industrial countries, especially in the United States, in the second half of the year presaged an upturn in world trade during 1976. The recession brought important shifts in the global pattern of payments balances. For the indus- trial countries as a group, it induced much larger volume declines in imports than in exports, and the effect on current account balances was reinforced by stronger increases in export prices than in import prices. The result was a turnaround of the order of US$25 billion from deficit to surplus in the combined current account balance of the industrial countries. The principal counterpart to this shift was a marked decline in the combined current account surplus of the major oil exporting countries, reflecting both a drop in the volume of their exports and a further expansion of their imports (the only important seg- ment of world trade expanding during 1975). For non-oil developing countries and some developed primary producing countries, the main impact of the recession was an adverse movement in the terms of trade, as their import prices continued to rise while prices for their exports of primary commodities declined. A fall in the aggregate volume of their exports also contributed to the reduction of foreign exchange receipts. Even with a reduction in the volume of imports, the non-oil developing countries as a group thus incurred a larger current account deficit in 1975 than in 1974 (US$35 billion com- pared with about US$28 billion). To finance their enlarged current account deficit, the non-oil developing countries continued to borrow 1 This Report centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrangemen ts that may have direct balance of payments implications. The period covered is 1975 and the early part of 1976. heavily from external sources, on which they had already relied in 1974, and some drew on their reserve assets. By the beginning of 1976, the result- ant increases in external debt and impairment of international liquidity positions posed difficult prob- lems of balance of payments management for some developing countries. Relationships in market exchange rates among the major world currencies again registered marked swings. In the early months of 1975 the market exchange rates for the currencies of the European common margins arrangement as well as the Austrian schilling, the French franc, and the Swiss franc reflected the upward movement against the U.S. dol- lar that had been evident in the latter part of 1974. Rates for the Italian lira, the pound sterling, and the Japanese yen followed a similar trend over this period, but movements in the rates for these curren- cies were less pronounced. From around the begin- ning of March 1975 the market exchange rates for most major currencies became relatively more stable although the general trend through June 1975 was a modest downward adjustment vis-a-vis the U.S. dol- lar. The French franc, however, rose further against the U.S. dollar during this period. On May 9, France formally announced its intention of rejoining the European common margins arrangement. This was implemented with effect from July 10, 1975, and the French franc, which had been floating independently since January 1974, rejoined at the old cross parities. The downtrend in exchange rates for the major Euro- pean currencies in terms of the U.S. dollar gathered momentum during July and continued through Sep- tember; they regained a measure of stability during the remainder of the year. In the early months of 1976, exchange markets became unsettled and more volatile. After the rate for the Italian lira declined sharply in mid-January 1976, the authorities sus- pended official quotations in the Italian exchange market; they were resumed on March 1, 1976. The deutsche mark, which had been at the bottom or in the lower half of the European common margins arrangement during most of 1975, rose to the top of the arrangement between mid-January and mid- February. In early March the pound sterling declined abruptly. On March 15 France announced that it had decided to suspend until fu r ther notice interven- tions aimed at limiting the margins for the French f ranc within those prescribed by the European com- mon margins arrangement. At the same time, the arrangement was terminated under which Belgium 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS and the Netherlands maintained maximum margins of 1.5 per cent in respect of each other's currencies. Between Janua ry 1975 and the end of March 1976 there was a slight overall decline in the effective exchange rates of the major continental European currencies other than the Italian lira and the Swiss f ranc. The effective rate for the Italian lira after remaining relatively stable through 1975 fell appre- ciably in early 1976. The effective rate for the Swiss franc af ter declining through most of 1975 subse- quently rose considerably. The effective rate for the pound sterling registered a persistent decline over the period January 1975-end March 1976, while the effective rate for the U.S. dollar showed a rising trend through this period. The effective rate for the Cana- dian dollar a f ter declining early in 1975 showed a rising trend thereaf ter. The effective rate for the Japanese yen was stable through most of 1975 and rose moderately in early 1976. Most other currencies peg on one of the major currencies, mainly the French franc, the pound ster- ling, or the U.S. dollar. During the period under review a large number of countries changed the rela- tionship of their currency to the currency to which they are pegged. In several instances these actions were associated with a depreciation of the currency, and more rarely with an appreciation. The following countries repegged their currencies f rom the U.S. dol- lar to the SDR: Burma, Iran, and Jordan (Febru- ary 1975); Qatar and Saudi Arabia (March 1975); Guinea and Malawi (June 1975 ); Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda (October 1975); and Zaire (March 1976). In January 1976, Maur i t ius repegged its currency f rom the pound sterling to the SDR. Coun- tries which pegged their currencies to a composite of the currencies of their main t rad ing partners included Greece and Kuwait (March 1975), Fiji (April 1975), and India (September 1975). Subsequently, Saudi Arabia (in September 1975) and Qatar (in Janu- ary 1976) informed the Fund that they would main- tain margins of up to 7.25 per cent around the fixed relationship between their currencies and the SDR. In October, Western Samoa repegged its currency from the U.S. dollar to the composite used in determining rates for the New Zealand dollar. In June 1975 South Africa, which had been following an independent exchange rate policy since June 1974, repegged the rand to the U.S. dollar. Botswana and Lesotho continued to use the South Afr ican rand as their currency while Swaziland informed the Fund that the central rate for the lilangeni (which circu- lates with the rand) continued to be E 1.00 = R 1.00. Turkey informed the Fund in July 1975 that the rate 4 for the Turkish lira for the time being would not be kept within the margins hitherto observed, and the currency began to float independently. Israel estab- lished a new par value in June 1975 and in August informed the Fund that it would henceforth follow a policy of small but rather frequent adjustments in the official exchange rate. Barbados (in July) and Guyana (in October) repegged their currencies from the pound sterling to the U.S. dollar. In Papua New Guinea the kina was issued to replace the Aus- tralian dollar and was pegged on that currency at the rate of K 1 = $A 1. Against the background of the decline in world trade and widespread payments disequilibria, mem- ber countries in general continued to avoid large-scale resort to restrictions on current payments and trans- actions. Also, based on existing information in the Fund, members in managing their international pay- ments did not engage in competitive devaluation. While this outcome was on the whole satisfactory, given the difficult circumstances faced by many coun- tries, there was a clearly discernible trend toward the greater use of import controls and other restraints on current transactions by countries which as a group accounted for a significant share of world trade. Most member countries applying restrictions have made use of trade controls rather than exchange restric- tions. Only a few countries took action to limit the availability of exchange for imports, while there was no marked retrogression in respect of other restric- tions and exchange practices inconsistent with the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Indeed, despite the prevailing unfavorable conditions, some progress was made in limiting the use of multiple currency prac- tices and in further reducing reliance on bilateralism. While it was mainly in a few developing countries that severe restrictions were imposed, an important feature of developments during the period under review was the increasing use of selective import controls and of surveillance licensing for specified imports by some of the industrialized countries and of agreements on export restraint with producers of such items. In facing the substantially changed global situation described above world capital markets demonstrated considerable resiliency. Foreign lending by banks fol- lowed a modest upward trend in 1975 while financ- ing through international bond markets expanded strongly. The industrial countries of Europe and Japan in general maintained or increased the degree of freedom f rom control over capital inflows which had been re-established by early 1974; several of these countries took additional steps to ease the remaining ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION limitations further and some permitted or undertook a considerable volume of borrowing abroad. The main exception to these developments was Switzer- land which, after reimposing certain recently elimi- nated controls on capital inflows in November 1974, intensified them in 1975. A few of the industrial countries tightened controls on capital outflows but some others relaxed them, e.g., by giving nonresi- dents improved access to the domestic capital mar- ket. Among other countries, the efforts of national authorities were designed in many cases to facilitate inflows of capital through the banking system and to encourage foreign borrowing by nonbank firms. In the area of inward direct investment, however, there was a continuation of the trend toward the restriction of foreign ownership or control of domestic enter- prises and resources. Last year's Report incorporated the statement issued by the Committee of Twenty at the end of its final meeting in June 1974, which invited member countries to subscribe on a voluntary basis to the Declaration concerning trade and other current account measures for balance of payments purposes. Members subscribing to the Declaration would repre- sent not to introduce or intensify such measures for balance of payments purposes without a finding by the Fund that there was a balance of payments justifi- cation for the measures. The Executive Directors established the necessary procedures in connection with the Declaration, which was to become effective for two years among the subscribing members when accepted by members having 65 per cent of the total voting power. The required majority has not as yet been reached. In May 1975 a similar Declaration of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) adopted in May 1974 was extended for a fur ther year. The substantive phase of the Tokyo Round of multilateral trade negotia- tions—in which some 90 countries are participating— was initiated early in 1975, following passage of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974. During the year, the par- ticipating governments broadly agreed on the organi- zation of the negotiations covering the following areas: reduction or elimination of tar iffs; liberaliza- tion of nontariff barriers to trade; reform of the system of safeguards under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) which permits coun- tries to introduce temporary import restrictions to prevent dislocation of domestic industries due to sud- den increases in imports; liberalization of interna- tional trade in agricultural products; special and priority treatment of tropical products, a particular concern of many developing countries; and coordi- nated reduction of trade barriers in certain selected sectors. Through its policies on the use of Fund resources as well as its consultation procedures, the Fund has continued to pay special regard to the efforts by members to avoid the use of restrictions on current international payments and transactions. Thus the Fund decided that requests for assistance under the 1974 and 1975 oil facilities would be met if the Fund was satisfied that the members were following poli- cies not inconsistent with the understandings set forth in the Rome communique of January 1974. Further- more, a member requesting a purchase under the 1974 and 1975 oil facilities was expected to represent that while the purchase was outstanding, it would refrain from imposing new, and from intensifying existing, restrictions on current international pay- ments inconsistently with its obligations under the Fund's Articles of Agreement and from imposing new, or intensifying existing, restrictions on current international transactions without prior consultation with the Fund. At the end of March 1976, a total of 55 members had made purchases under the 1974 and 1975 oil facilities. In the communique issued by the Interim Commit- tee at the end of its meeting held in Kingston, Jamaica, on January 7-8, 1976, the Committee wel- comed the agreement which had been reached on provisions concerning exchange rates and endorsed a proposed new Article IV of the Fund Agreement which establishes a system of exchange arrangements. Under the proposed new Article IV each member undertakes to collaborate with the Fund and with other members to assure orderly exchange arrange- ments and to promote a stable system of exchange rates, recognizing that the essential purpose of the international monetary system is to provide a frame- work that facilitates the exchange of goods, services, and capital among countries, and that sustains sound economic growth, and that a principal objective is the continuing development of the orderly underly- ing conditions that are necessary for financial and economic stability. The proposed new Article IV is included in the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement sent to members at the end of March for acceptance in accordance with the relevant provi- sions of the present Articles.2 In the Second Amend- ment, the rules in the present Articles VIII and XIV relating to the imposition or intensification of restric- tions on the mak ing of payments for current interna- 2 The texts of the proposed Article IV and Schedule C are reproduced in the Appendix to Part I of this Report. See pages 22-24. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tional transactions, and the introduction of discrimi- natory currency arrangemen ts and multiple currency practices, have been retained. Two countries, Grenada and Papua New Guinea, became members of the Fund dur ing the period under review, raising the total membership to 128 countries. Papua New Gu inea accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, bringing to 43 the number of mem- bers which have formally accepted these obligations. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments The balance of payments difficulties in many coun- tries referred to in the Introduction led to a more pronounced use of import controls and restrictions, particularly in the latter part of the period under review. Most members resisted the pressures for the adoption of such measures on a large scale. The adoption of more restrictive import policies occurred in both developed and developing countries, but, in general, new or intensified restrictions were selective in their application; in only a few instances were they applied as a major ins trument of balance of payments management. In many cases the use of selective import controls also appears to reflect a desire to protect certain industries f rom increased import com- petition in the prevailing conditions of weak demand. Measures to limit imports generally took the form of trade controls, including sometimes advance deposits, rather than of restrictions on the provision of exchange for imports; in a few developing coun- tries, however, there were new arrears on import payments. Some countries revoked existing open general license arrangemen ts, and in a number of countries there appears to have been a more rigorous enforcement of existing import regulations. Some countries which had introduced stringent new restric- tions on a temporary basis dur ing 1974 were able to revert to f reer import regimes. Major import liberalization occurred mainly in a few oil exporting countries. a. Quantitative Import Controls The industrialized countries as a whole avoided recourse to comprehensive new import controls. Within this context, a number of countries employed controls of both a quantitative and a cost nature to a much greater extent than in recent years, while some eased certain import controls. In addition, several European countries fu r ther reduced restrictions oh imports from the member countries of the Council for 6 Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),8 and Austria extended its GATT import liberalization worldwide. Japan in June 1975 lifted the suspension, imposed in 1974, on the issuance of import licenses for beef and veal, but later subjected silk products to import licensing. Canada and the United States removed their mu tual quotas on imports of cattle and beef. The United Kingdom imposed quota restrictions for the first half of 1976 on specified textile products from Portugal and Spain, and for all of 1976 on woolen suits from Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, and Romania. The prohibition by the European Economic Community (EEC) 4 in July 1974 of most imports of cattle, beef, and veal f rom non-EEC ("third") countries was modified on several occasions. Imports of beef were authorized when linked to exports of beef to third countries; subsequently, imports were linked to purchases from the EEC's intervention stocks. The EEC also autho- rized imports of young bovine animals for fa t ten ing and herd building, up to specified limits. The United States continued to rely on restraint agreements with meat expor t ing countries. The EEC also authorized or prescribed various import control measures, some of which followed the conclusion of bilateral agreements between the EEC and other members of the GATT Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles, while others were based on the general safeguard provisions of the Arrangement. The conclusion of the bilateral agreements sometimes was preceded by temporary unilateral action on the part of the EEC itself. Many of the measures introduced under these arrangements were of a quan t i ta t ive na ture, and were directed by the EEC or by ind iv idual EEC countries at limiting imports of specified textile products according to the country of origin. EEC members introducing meas- ures, either under these arrangements or unilaterally, were the Benelux countries, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the United K ingdom. Other actions by the EEC affec t ing imports f rom third countries included the authorization of the exclusion f rom Commun i ty treatment by specified individual member states of certain products originat- ing outside the EEC. France imposed a tax on imports of certain Italian wines. The EEC, as well as various individual industrial countries, increased 3 Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 4 The members are Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, and Un i ted K ingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES their resort to agreements on export restraint with "low-cost" producers of textiles and footwear. Quantitative restrictions of a selective nature were also introduced or tightened in some of the non-EEC industrialized countries and in some of the more developed primary producing countries. These included the adoption of new or more restrictive controls, surveillance procedures, and/or quotas on imports of certain commodities in Austria, Canada, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. Austria applied mini- mum prices to certain imported garments. Australia introduced tariff quotas on imports of specified tex- tiles and import licensing requirements on passenger and light commercial vehicles, certain sheets and plates of iron and steel, footwear, sunglasses, and ophthalmic frames. Import licensing was also imposed on a limited range of apparel items from specified countries, but these were lifted in Febru- ary 1976 and replaced with global tariff quotas. Quotas and/or licensing requirements were intro- duced on imports of bakery products and color tele- vision sets in Iceland, and of specified textiles in New Zealand and Portugal. New Zealand maintained the overall value of import licenses at the previous year's level, and reduced the value of licenses for a few commodities by 25 to 50 per cent; subsequently, it introduced an import deposit scheme. Spain delib- eralized some imports by transferr ing them from the free import list to the global quota list. Ireland, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Senegal ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. A number of developing countries were able to liberalize their import systems through easing or lift- ing quantitative restrictions. Some of the oil export- ing countries which had liberalized considerably in 1974 made further progress in 1975. Little progress in relaxing restrictions on either private sector imports or invisibles was made in some of the coun- tries that had benefited from large price increases for major exports, notably Algeria and Tunisia. A larger number of developing countries intensified quantitative import restrictions or tightened import licensing procedures. In most instances the use of these restrictive measures was confined to selected commodities. In Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Zaire, and Zambia, however, the measures introduced repre- sented a significant tightening of import policy; in some of these countries imports had increased sub- stantially. Furthermore, in a few countries, notably Sierra Leone and Zaire, the open general license system was terminated. In Argentina, the import of a range of items was suspended until the end of 1975, biennial sectoral programs were introduced for all imports except capital goods, and imports for some 36 types of indus try became subject to negotiated global quotas; the large increase of imports in value terms in 1975 and the insignificant restraining impact of these restrictions induced the authorities to elimi- nate them early in 1976. Brazil introduced new regu- lations tightening administrative procedures for the issuance of import licenses, in particular for imports of government departments and federal agencies. While the ban on imports of consumer goods by gov- ernment agencies was relaxed somewhat to permit such imports when originating in member countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) ,5 a reduction of 25 per cent in imports by government agencies was announced for 1976. In February 1976, Brazil prohibited the import of cer- tain nonessential goods through June 30, 1976, except when of LAFTA origin. In July 1975 Mexico introduced prohibitions or quantitative restrictions on a large number of consumer goods; in some cases, import authorizations were limited to 50 per cent of 1974 authorizations. In conjunction with these measures, regulations were issued requiring licenses for all imports, although some items were later exempted. In Zaire, only specified priority items remained freely importable and few licenses were issued du r ing the year for items not on the new free list. Other developing countries which tightened quantitative import restrictions or import licensing procedures included Barbados, Burundi, Cameroon, the People's Republic of the Congo, Cyprus, the Dominican Republic, Fiji, Jamaica, Ivory Coast, Korea, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Romania, the Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia, and Zambia. In addition, the scope of import prohibitions, in many cases applying to a few specified items, was increased in Afghanistan, the People's Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Fiji, Ghana, Guyana, Jordan, Mauritius, Nepal, and Nicaragua. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation A number of countries adopted new or higher import surcharges, in some cases for the specific purpose of restraining imports. In May 1975 Portu- gal introduced a surcharge at rates of 20 per cent or 30 per cent on nearly half of the country's imports. Ecuador and Pakistan introduced surcharges of 30 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, on certain 5 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS imports, while Upper Volta introduced a customs stamp du ty of 6 per cent and a surtax of 6 per cent on all imports. As has been its practice in the last few fiscal years, Israel f u r t h er extended the import surcharge which had been due to expire on April 1, 1975. Iceland raised its import surcharge f rom 35 per cent to 50 per cent on motor vehicles and motor- cycles, and from 20 per cent to 25 per cent on buses and heavy trucks. Yugoslavia raised the general surcharge f rom 6 per cent to 10 per cent in May 1975 and the preferential rate of surcharge from 2 per cent to 5 per cent; this latter rate was fu r ther raised to a range of 7 to 9 per cent in Janua ry 1976. Malaysia and Panama each raised their surtax by 1 percentage point to 5 and 7 per cent, respectively. Zambia replaced its import surcharge with a higher sales tax on imports. Uruguay imposed an import surcharge when it eliminated the advance deposit requ iremen ts on certain imports. There were fu r ther t a r i ff reduc t ions between the EEC and its new members, and between the EEC and member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) .6 In a few other countries ( inc lud ing some oil expor t ing coun t r ie s ), t a r i f fs also were reduced on a wide range of imports. Many developing countries abolished the ir Commonwealth ta r i ff preferences or other reverse preferences .7 In a number of instances, selective increases in import duties took place. There were also many changes in import du t ies on exports originating in developing countries as the EEC and various individual countries introduced or modified Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) schemes. The United States implemented its GSP scheme, effective Janua ry 1, 1976, g ran t ing du ty-free access for a max imum period of ten years to imports of eligible articles f rom specified developing countries and dependencies.8 Aus tra l ia, Finland, Sweden, and Yugoslavia announced additions to their lists of bene- f ic iary countries, while Aus tr ia put in to effect the second stage of its scheme by increas ing the p re fe ren- tial ma rg ins f rom 30 to 50 per cent on some prod- ucts and by adding textiles to the list of eligible prod- ucts. Austria and New Zealand exempted f rom du ty 6 The members are Aus tr ia, F in land, Iceland, No rway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland. 7 Preferences granted by less developed coun t r ies to the p roduc ts of industrialized countries. 8 A number of countries are specifically ex c lud ed: A lge r ia, Cambodia, Ecuador, Gabon, Greece, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan A rab Republic, N iger ia, Po r tuga l, Qa tar, Saudi Arab ia, Spa in, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Venezue la, V ie t -Nam, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 8 some handicrafts from developing countries. Aus- tralia, however, suspended preferen t ial treatment of some items under its GSP. c. A dvance Import Deposits As in previous years, there were many changes in the use of advance deposit schemes. Iceland, Israel, Italy, and Yugoslavia abolished the deposit require- ments that had been introduced in 1974, and Colom- bia term ina ted advance payment deposits on applica- tions for exchange licenses. A number of other coun- tries eased their import deposit requirements through reduction of the rates of deposit, the commodity cov- erage, or the length of the retention period. The rates of deposit were lowered in Colombia and Ghana. In Greece, du r ing the period under review, those import items that were still affected by the increased deposit requ i remen ts of March 1974 were returned to their original classification. The number of items subject to prior deposit was reduced in El Salvador, while in Paraguay the retention period was shortened from 180 to 120 days. Chile published a new list of imports subject to the 10,000 per cent prior deposit requ i remen t, and also new lists of imports for which the requ i rement cannot be waived or may be waived only u n d er certain specified cond i t ions; the coverage of these two lists was subsequently reduced. During the period var ious ad ju s tmen ts in the commodity cov- erage, deposit rates, and retention periods were also made in Korea, inc lud ing an increase in the deposit rates requ i red on some imports and a reduction of the rates and re ten t ion periods for imports of certain capital goods and raw materials. In Uruguay, new regu la t ions were issued on several occasions during the year; the ma in effec ts were a liberalization of the deposit requ i remen ts for capital goods and the in troduc t ion in April 1975 of a deposit requirement for all pr iva te sector imports, which lapsed in December. Six countries in troduced advance import deposit schemes, one of which was term ina ted shortly af ter in t roduc t ion. In October, Bolivia required an advance deposit of 25 per cent of the value of most import commodities for a period of 120 days. In July, Brazil established a 100 per cent prior deposit requirement a f f e c t ing approximately one fifth of total 1974 imports; the coverage of the scheme was significantly expanded to about 60 per cent of imports in Decem- ber, when also the length of the retention period was increased f rom 180 to 360 days. In Ecuador, more than one half of all import commodities became sub- ject to a deposit requirement in September at rates of 20 per cent or 30 per cent for a period of 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES days. In Finland about 50 per cent of total merchan- dise impor ts became subject to a deposit requirement in March 1975 at rates vary ing from 5 per cent to 30 per cent; early in 1976, steps were taken to phase out the scheme by the end of 1976. In Febru- ary 1975, Maur i t ius introduced a 40 per cent prior deposit requirement on most imports other than specified essential items, but the requ irement was revoked w i th in a short time. In New Zealand, in February 1976, about 7 per cent of imports became subject to a deposit requ irement equ iva lent to one third of customs value. Among other countries with import deposit schemes, Argentina raised the deposit rate on certain nonessential imports f rom 40 per cent to 100 per cent in Janua ry 1975, but lowered it again to 40 per cent in June. The Argentine scheme, how- ever, provided for exchange risk cover on all import contracts subject to advance deposits du r ing 1975. d. Measures Affecting Import Payments Changes in the regulations gove rn ing paymen ts for imports generally resulted in a liberalization rather than an in tens if ica t ion of restrictions, except in a few instances where the regulations were used to rein- force other restrictive measures. Bangladesh removed the de fe r red payment requ i rement for commercial imports. Brazil abolished the cash payment require- ment which applied to specified imports and it allowed imports of capital goods, raw materials, and intermediate products against medium-term and long- term foreign loans. Italy removed the requ irement that advance paymen ts for imports and services of more than Lit 1 million be made with foreign cur- rency borrowed f rom I ta l ian banks. Nigeria, which previously requ ired presen ta t ion of a customs bill of entry before exchange for imports could be allocated, allowed payment for imports prior to the arrival of the goods and abolished the requ i rement that capital equipment valued at more than N 100,000 must be imported on specified deferred payment terms. Peru eliminated the documen ta ry letter of credit require- ment that applied to all private imports, while in U ruguay the 180-day credit requ irement for pr iva te imports was abolished. Regulations a f fec t ing import payments were also eased in Greece. On the other hand, several countries tightened import payment regulations. In Argen t ina, most imports became sub- ject to an exchange risk deposit system, and the pro- visions covering m in imum payment terms were made more restrictive; these measures were, however, relaxed at the end of 1975 or early in 1976. Finland increased the number of commodities for which cash payment before customs clearance is obligatory and announced that, with effect from March 1, 1976, set- tlements under unau tho r ized credit arrangements in excess of six mon ths would be subject to fines. Ice- land no longer allowed the use of suppliers' credit for some construction machinery, trucks, and trac- tors. Other countries that tightened regulations on import payments included the Dominican Republic, Malawi, Sierra Leone, and Zaire. Du r ing the year, arrears on current payments in respect of imports developed or increased in the Dominican Republic, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia. e. State Trading Existing state trad ing activities were extended in Benin, Guyana, India, Madagascar, Pakistan, the Philippines, Somalia, and Tanzania among others. Ireland announced the fo rma t ion of a national for- eign t rad ing company, w i th 20 per cent state par- ticipation, to market Irish products abroad and to import capital equ ipment and raw materials for Irish indu s t ry in certain cases. Japan extended for one year the import monopoly of an official agency for raw silk. 2. Measures A f fec t ing Exports In 1973 and 1974 the emergence of serious short- ages of basic raw materials and foods tuffs resulted in a n um b er of coun tr ies applying measures to restrict exports of these commodities for domestic supply and price considerations. This period was also marked by e f fo r ts on the part of some pr imary pro- du c ing coun t r ies to sustain or increase world prices for key products or to conserve resources through policies designed to reduce production or to build up stockpiles. Such policies were implemented either on a unilateral basis or in association with other p rodu c ing countries. D u r i ng the period under review, w i th the eas ing of demand pressures, the emphasis of policy in many countries shifted to one of provid- ing more positive s t imu lus to export growth. This invo lved in some cases an eas ing of quan t i ta t ive limi- tations and controls on exports, and a lowering of specific export taxes. Many countries also resorted to more d irect measures to increase export earnings, such as incentives to exporters by way of bounties and subsidies, tax rebates or other preferential tax concessions, and the extension or improvement of p r e f e r en t i al financing facilities, export guarantees and export credit insu rance, and exchange risk guarantee schemes. Export p roh ib i t ions on specified commodities were l i f ted in Greece, India, Indonesia, Peru, and Turkey. Australia eased the arrangements for the export of 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS live cattle, and no restrictions now apply w i th respect to the export of stud or breeder cattle. The United Kingdom allowed the licensing requ irement for exports of coal, coke, solid fuels, petroleum and petroleum products, and ferrous scrap to expire, and the United States removed export quotas and licensing requirements for exports of ferrous scrap. Controls were also eased in Greece, India, Pak is tan, Rwanda, and Spain. Turkey abolished the pre-export price control system but increased the number of products for which export licenses are required. Coun tr ies that suspended exports of particular commodities, in most instances on a temporary basis, included Brazil, Gua- temala, Ind ia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, the Sudan, and Venezuela. Canada announced that exports of crude petroleum and na tu ral gas would be phased out by 1981. A few countries again adopted measures to expe- d i te the repa t r ia t ion of foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports, or to shorten the permissible su r render period. In Ecuador, exporters were required to repa tr ia te proceeds from exports within a period of from 60 to 360 days, depending on the type of export. Italy reduced from 60 to 15 days the period w i th in which exchange proceeds from exports must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. As noted above, increased use was made of export res tra int agreements by indus t r ial nations. Du r ing the period under review several of these agree- ments were negotiated by the EEC invo lv ing l im i ta- tions by a few developing countries on exports of textile products. The United States renegotiated most of its agreements of this k ind and also negotiated export restraint agreements w i th a number of meat exporting countries. As part of a program for assist- ing the textile and footwear industries, the United Kingdom agreed in July 1975 with three Eastern European countries that they would impose restraints on exports of certain footwear. Fur ther restraints for 1976 were subsequently agreed, as well as res tra int on certain clothing exports. As indicated above, some countries sought to encourage exports through the lowering or suspension of export duties and taxes. Afghanistan eliminated the 2 per cent export tax on all products. Bolivia exempted all agricultural and manufactured exports f rom the 15 per cent tax on non t rad i t ional exports and reduced royalties on exports of m in ing products. Mexico in Janua ry introduced a new tax schedule that eliminated specific taxes, and removed some items f rom the list of taxable exports in August, when, in addition, duties were eliminated for most agri- cultural and semimanufactured exports. Taxes on 10 pa r t icu lar export commodities were eliminated or reduced in Costa Rica, Ecuador, India, the Philip- pines, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Tanzania. Specific export taxes and duties were, however, introduced or increased in some other countries. Thus, Guinea introduced a tax on exports of bauxite and alumina. Countries which increased certain export taxes inc luded Barbados, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Jordan, Malaysia, Mali, Spain, and Upper Volta. Canada ad jus ted export taxes on petroleum several times d u r i ng 1975, but on average the tax was lower in 1975 than in 1974. Measures to relieve the tax burden on exporters, usua l ly in the form of tax concessions by way of rebates or remissions of indirect taxes, were adopted in Brazil, Chile, Cyprus, Israel, Mexico, Spain, and Tu rkey, and were extended to additional export items in India. In Bangladesh, on the other hand, the export subs idy scheme was abolished in May 1975 in connection with the un if ica t ion of the exchange rate system and a depreciation of the currency. Ceilings on various types of export credit or export credit insurance were raised in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Japan, and the Netherlands. In Switzerland various measures were taken to facili- tate export financing. In the United Kingdom the Export Credits Guaran tee Department (ECGD) began to give guarantees to the clearing banks to f a c i l i t a te the provision of working capital as preship- ment finance for large export contracts, and relaxed its cond i t ions for giving cover in support of perform- ance bonds by exporters. In Singapore, the Mone- ta ry Au thor i ty began to provide rediscount facilities for export and pre-export usance bills, and it was announced that an export credit insurance scheme would be established. Other countries which expanded financing facilities for exports included Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, India, Jamaica, Korea, and Turkey. New export credit facilities were also in troduced in Cyprus and Denmark. France, Italy, and the United Kingdom concluded agreements p rov id ing for the extension of large volumes of export credit, at the government level, to certain Eastern European countries. A number of countries again took steps to protect exporters against the risk of losses arising from exchange rate fluctuations. In Denmark, exchange rate insurance was made available for long-term export credits. France reduced the premium for exchange rate guarantees in respect of countries par t ic ipa t ing in the European common margins arrangement. Norway introduced a self-financing exchange risk cover scheme through the Export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Credit Guarantee Institute to provide cover for exports when it was not available on reasonable terms in the forward exchange market. Switzerland expanded the currency coverage of exchange risk insurance. In February 1976, the Federal Republic of Ger- many adjusted the coverage provided by state guaran- tees against commercial and political risks on sup- pliers' credit and tied buyers' loans. In France, the Compagnie Franchise d'Assurance pour le Com- merce Exterieur (COFACE) extended cover against political risks to the insurance sector. France also provided additional credit insurance facilities to firms exporting to countries with temporary balance of payments difficulties. In the United Kingdom, insur- ance was made available to exporters of capital goods to non-EEC countries, against cost inflation affecting fixed-price contracts of a specified m in imum amount and duration. 3. Restrictions on Current Invisibles Significant changes in restrictions on payments for current invisibles took place mainly in developing countries. Some increases that were granted in allo- cations for travel purposes and for other invisibles were intended only to offset increases in price levels or the effective depreciation of the domestic cur- rency; such changes are not included in the following summary. The Republic of China, Iraq, Jordan, and Korea increased the basic exchange allocations for travel; Iraq had previously, in December 1974, terminated the 10 per cent deposit requirement on travel exchange. Argentina reduced travel allowances in 1975, but increased them substantially early in 1976, when a new exchange market with freely negotiated rates was established for purchases and sales of travel exchange. Bangladesh abolished the 30 per cent tax on foreign exchange for unofficial travel abroad. Guyana reintroduced exchange allocations for tourist travel, but the limits were set lower than those that were in effect prior to January 1974, when these facilities were suspended. Chile, which had liberal- ized restrictions on travel exchange in 1974, reduced the allocations in January 1975 and, early in 1976, increased the tax on foreign travel. Israel raised the allowances for business travel in April 1975; in February 1976, however, the standard allowance for minors was lowered, the tax on foreign travel was increased, and a surcharge was applied to purchases of travel exchange. Peru, which had previously applied a tax on foreign travel, substituted a tax on exchange sold for trips abroad. In September 1975, Zambia withdrew all allocations for tourist travel and restricted those for business travel, thus reversing the liberalization measures introduced in 1974. Other countries which reduced the allowances or tightened controls on the provision of exchange for travel included Portugal and Turkey. Limits on remittances abroad for education pur- poses were increased in Chile, the Republic of China, Jordan, and Korea, and Colombia and Jordan raised the ceiling on remittances abroad for the support of dependents. Yugoslavia raised the limits on foreign exchange that could be transferred abroad to settle court and other related fees, and for specified per- sonal expenses. Jamaica imposed limitations on the transfer abroad of income accruing to emigrants f rom sources within Jamaica. Zambia intensified restrictions on the remittance of profits and dividends and reduced the allocations for leave pay due to expatriates working on a contract basis. Argentina signed an agreement with foreign-owned automobile assembly firms providing for the postponement of all payments abroad for two years, in return for cer- ta in concessions regarding domestic pricing policies and exemption from import controls. Regulations governing the import and export of domestic currency by travelers were changed in a number of countries. Australia and Korea increased the amounts which could be taken out by travelers in domestic notes and coins. Portugal, however, reduced the limits on the export by resident travelers of both domestic and foreign currency, and other foreign means of payment, while Western Samoa and Zambia prohibited the export and import of domestic notes and coins. During 1975 arrears in respect of interest pay- ments on foreign debt obligations arose in Sierra Leone and Zaire. 4. Multiple Currency Practices No new dual exchange markets were established du r ing the period under review. Chile and Peru each unified their dual exchange markets de facto, while Iran and the Syrian Arab Republic continued to operate unitary rate systems without formally revok- ing the regulations that had set up a dual exchange marke t. There was little or no change in the dual market systems in the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union (BLEU ), Paraguay, and Uruguay. Egypt expanded the role of the secondary market and depreciated its currency in that market. In Janua ry 1976, Argentina introduced a new exchange market with a freely fluctuating rate applicable to travel exchange only. A simplification of multiple 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rate systems took place in A fghan is tan, Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Gu inea, and Nepal. In th is group Bangladesh and Gu inea un if ied the ir exchange rate s truc tures, the latter for transac t ions only with coun- tries with which no paymen ts agreements are in force. The systems operated by Brazil and Colombia were adapted on var ious occasions with little net change. In February 1976, Israel introduced a multiple cur- rency practice by applying a surcharge to foreign exchange purchases for travel and certain other invis- ibles. Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and U ruguay con- tinued the practice of making frequent changes in the peg on the ir intervention currency, A rgen t ina re in s t i tu ted such a regime, and Israel in August 1975 adopted a new exchange rate policy under wh ich its currency is depreciated by small amoun ts at irregu lar in terva ls. Bangladesh effected a ma jor simplification of its exchange regime in May 1975. The 30 per cent tax on exchange for uno f f ic ial travel abroad was abol- ished, and the P rem ium Paymen ts Scheme, und er which remittances in foreign exchange by Bangladesh nationals wo rk ing abroad had been converted at a considerably depreciated rate for the national cur- rency, was term ina ted. In add i t ion, the export sub- sidy scheme, which provided exporters w i th a cash subsidy of between 10 per cent and 75 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of certain non t rad i t ional exports, was abolished. In May 1975 Costa Rica eliminated the tempo ra ry multiple currency practices which had remained when the dual exchange market was un i f ied in April 1974. There was a substantial simplification of Nepal's exchange system du r ing 1975. In July, Paraguay reduced the spreads between buy ing and selling rates in the official exchange ma rke t. In the Sudan export proceeds of gum arabic became eligible for the 15 per cent exchange subs idy; as a result, cotton rema ined the only export commodity whose proceeds were not settled at the depreciated rate. In Egypt f u r t h er changes took place in the regu- lations gove rn ing the parallel fore ign exchange mar- ket. From late 1974, all nongovernmental payments for non t rade invisibles were effec ted th rough the parallel ma rket and in February 1975 the scope of the market was increased through the inclusion of add i t ional impor ts of public sector indus tr ies. The list of commodities eligible for import when no pur- chase of fore ign exchange is involved was progres- sively expanded; by the end of 1975 all goods were eligible for "own exchange" impo r ta t ion, except for 18 essential commodities and a few other items that were restricted for security or protective reasons. Early in 1976, the Egyptian pound was depreciated 12 in the parallel ma rke t. In Janua ry 1975, Sri Lanka made impor ts of tallow, palm oil, and milling copra subject to the su r render of Foreign Exchange Entitle- ment Certificates, thus revers ing the measure taken in September 1974, wh ich perm i t ted payments for such impo r ts to be effec ted at the official exchange rate. The A rgen t ine exchange system unde rwent a series of changes. As of April 5, 1976, there were two basic exchange marke ts, the official market and the f r ee m a r k e t, w i th m ix ing rates for import payments, export proceeds, and invisibles. The two markets had been ins t i tu ted on March 8, 1976 and the mixing a r r ang em en ts went into effect on April 5. Imports of fue l s, lubr ican ts, and new sp r in t, and transactions related to financial loans and in teres t, were settled in the off ic ial ma rke t; imports of raw materials and in t e rm ed i a te goods were settled 83 per cent in the o f f ic ial market and 17 per cent in the free marke t, while other imports, export proceeds, and trade- related invisibles were settled 65 per cent in the offi- cial market and the balance in the free market. Travel expenses and other invisibles were settled in the f ree ma rke t. Special arrangemen ts provided that the t r a n s f er of profits and d iv idends must be effected th rough the purchase of dollar-denominated bonds. Brazil's system of multiple rates was changed th rough ad ju s tmen ts in the existing exchange taxes on export proceeds f rom coffee, cocoa and cocoa produc ts, and qua r tz chips. Additional exchange rates arose f rom the in troduc t ion of such taxes on decaffe ina ted green coffee, and from the reintroduc- tion of the tax on freeze-dried soluble coffee. There was a reduc t ion, however, in the types of green coffee subject to exchange tax. Following the frost of July 1975, the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te announced sharp increases in m in imum registration prices for coffee expor ts, and te rm ina ted its policy of gran t ing sub- stantial discounts to ma jor buyers. Chile took f u r t h er measures du r ing 1975 to sim- p l i fy its exchange system. At the end of August, the spread between the exchange rates in the banking and brokers' marke ts was e l im ina ted and most trans- ac t ions previously conducted in the latter market were t ran s fe r red to the bank ing market. Brokers' ma rket transactions were confined to remittances of in terest and profits on, and the repatriation of, for- eign cap i tal wh ich had entered Chile through that marke t. In Colombia, f rom July 1975, sales of foreign exchange ar is ing from purchases of domestically pro- duced natural gas were effected at the certificate mar- ket ra te, instead of at the fixed rate which then was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES applied only to imports of petroleum. The latter rate was adjusted on four occasions between September 1975 and Janua ry 1976, thus reducing the spread between this rate and the certificate market rate. In the U.K. investment currency market, the effec- tive premium over the official market rate of exchange fluctuated extensively before ending the year marginally lower than at the start. South Africa created an investment currency market by substitut- ing negotiable securities rand for blocked rand. 5. Bilateral Payments Arrangements In recent years steady progress has been made in the termination of bilateral payments arrangements maintained by Fund members with other member countries and with nonmember countries. During the period under review 49 bilateral payments arrange- ments were terminated, 16 between member coun- tries, and 33 between member countries and non- member countries. One new agreement between member countries was concluded, between Iran and Mexico, but it is understood that it has not as yet come into operation. Of the agreements between member countries that expired, 6 were abolished by Romania, 4 by Yugo- slavia, and 3 each by Algeria and Egypt. Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, and Turkey terminated 3 agreements each with nonmembers, and Guinea, Morocco, Portugal, Singapore, and the Sudan, 2 each. Iceland, Iraq, and Tunisia each terminated their last payments agreements. About 47 operative payments agreements are still maintained between members, 5 of which are regarded as involving bilateral features for one party only. In addition, some 11 inoperative agreements between members have not yet been formally termi- nated. The number of payments agreements between members and nonmembers stands at about 150. 6. Measures Affecting Capital For the first time in a number of years, industrial- ized countries adopted relatively few major measures affecting capital movements. Last year's Report noted the measures leading to a widespread relaxation of controls over capital inflows that were introduced by the industrial countries of Europe and by Japan toward the end of 1973 and 1974. Many of these measures coincided with the termination by the United States, in January 1974, of its controls on capital outflows. During the period under review the major European countries and Japan maintained, and in some cases extended, the existing degree of free- dom of inward movements of capital; several coun- tries took positive steps to encourage inflows through the bank ing system, through foreign borrowing by domestic nonbanks, and through the acquisition of securities by nonresidents. In some of the countries mentioned there was some tightening of controls on outflows. Switzerland, which had reimposed toward the end of 1974 certain controls on capital inflows, reinforced these controls during 1975, in the face of persistent upward pressure on the Swiss franc. Adaptations of direct and indirect controls on banks by the European countries, other than Switzer- land, generally followed the trend toward liberaliza- tion of inward capital movements. In Austria, the 75 per cent reserve requirement against increases in banks' schilling liabilities to nonresidents was sus- pended with effect from January 1, 1975, although the banks were still required to refrain from increas- ing domestic liquidity through additions to these liabilities, and the Austrian National Bank retained the right to reintroduce the reserve requirements. In May 1975, Denmark raised the ceiling on the nega- tive net commercial foreign position of authorized banks. The Federal Republic of Germany lowered in July 1975 by 10 per cent the minimum reserve requirements on domestic and foreign liabilities of banks, and in August reduced the minimum reserve ratio on foreign liabilities to about the level applied to domestic liabilities; in September, the authorities abolished the authorization requirement for the pay- ment of interest on credit balances held by nonresi- dents. Italy, in June 1975, removed the ceilings on banks' net external debtor positions; since July 1974, the banks had not been permitted to increase their net liabilities to nonresidents, both spot and forward, and in foreign and domestic currencies. In the Neth- erlands, the prohibition on the payment of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, as well as the prohibition on the establishment of guilder time and savings deposits in the names of nonresidents, were withdrawn f rom January 1, 1976. In Febru- ary 1975 Turkey allowed the larger authorized banks to establish foreign currency positions, subject to a max imum of US$25 million, which was later reduced to US$5 million. In Switzerland, in January 1975, the negative interest charge on nonresident Swiss franc deposits was increased from 3 per cent per quarter to 10 per cent per quarter; also the payment of interest on non- resident Swiss franc deposits was prohibited, irrespec- tive of when such deposits were made. Furthermore, banks' forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents were curtailed. In order to contain the expansion of domestic liquidity, the Swiss National Bank was 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS empowered to block in noninterest-bearing deposits, and for an indefinite period, the domestic currency counterpart of its spot purchases of foreign curren- cies. The m in imum reserve requ i remen ts against non- resident deposits were ad jus ted on several occasions. Reporting requirements on banks' foreign exchange operations were modified, and in some cases strength- ened, in several European countries in 1975. The Federal Republic of Ge rmany simplified the requ ire- ments for monthly repor t ing of the commercial banks' foreign exchange positions, but the banks became subject to an end-of-month reporting requirement in respect of their credit and debit positions in gold and other precious metals. In February 1975, the Italian Exchange Office tightened the repo r t ing requ i remen ts on banks' overall fo rwa rd exchange positions, while the repor t ing requ i rement for banks in Luxembou rg was extended in February 1975, when they were required to subm it quarterly re tu rns on the ma tu r i ty structure of the ir claims and liabilities in foreign cur- rency. Beginning in April, commercial banks in Switzerland agreed to report on a daily basis all spot or fo rwa rd exchange t ransac t ions exceeding US$5 million. A number of European countries relaxed regula- tions governing capital inflows through nonbanks. In several cases, borrowing abroad by the nonbank pri- vate sector was encouraged, and considerable foreign borrowing by the public sector took place in Au s t r ia, Denmark, France, Norway, Spain, and Sweden. France in June removed certain controls introduced in 1974 on foreign currency loans contracted by French companies outside France for commercial and financial operations, but in September requested state enterprises to reduce the ir reliance on fo re ign borrowing. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Bundesbank adopted in September a more liberal policy in respect of approval of nonresidents' acqui- sition of fixed-interest securities with maturities of more than two and up to four years; permission was still withheld, however, for shorter ma tur i t ies. In addition, commercial banks in the Federal Republic of Germany were allowed to place abroad a con- trolled amount of government promissory notes w i th a maturity of from two to four years. In May 1975, Italy revoked the requirement imposed in July 1973 that all advance payments for imports and services in excess of Lit 1 million be made w i th fore ign cur- rency borrowed f rom Italian banks. As noted above, several changes were later made in the regulations concerning the timing of import and export pay- ments, in an attempt to improve control over leads and lags. Austria in June eased certain restrictions 14 on inward direct investment and, from January 1976, fu r th er relaxed the restrictions on capital inflows in troduced in 1972. The liberalization applied to inward direct inves tmen t, foreign purchases of Aus- t r ian securities, and certain short-term commercial credits. In Norway the Government was authorized to borrow abroad, or to guarantee borrowing abroad by others up to a specified amoun t; similar authority later was granted for 1976. Regulations governing outflows of capital, includ- ing access by nonresidents to domestic capital mar- kets, were t igh tened, early in 1975, in several Euro- pean countries. Later in the year, however, some of these requirements were relaxed. In March 1975, issu- ing houses in the Federal Republic of Germany were requested by the Bundesbank on a vo lun tary basis to l im it placements of fore ign deutsche mark bonds by public and private borrowers. This was followed in July by a recommendation to a certain group of issuing houses not to grant deutsche mark loans to nonresidents in order to facilitate absorption by the domestic market of public authorities' loan offerings. At the end of Ju ly the gentlemen's agreement which had l im i ted foreign access to the capital market in the Federal Republic of Germany to about DM 600 million a month was terminated and was replaced by a temporary ban on external deutsche mark bond issues, fore ign private placements, and the placement of foreign promissory notes of DM 20 million or more on the domestic ma rke t. The ban, which initially was imposed th rough August 1975, subsequently was extended to the end of October 1975, when it was term ina ted. A temporary ban on the issuance of new bond issues by foreign public and semipublic bodies was imposed by the Swiss authorities in Janua ry 1975. In March, fo re ign states were again permitted to issue loans on the domestic capital ma rke t, but the prohibi- tion on local authorities' borrowings remained in force. The overall ceiling on capital market access subject to authorization was also raised. At the same t ime, pr iva te placements of notes for the purpose of ref inanc ing m a t u r i ng note issues were exempted from the ce i l ing, in contrast to foreign loans offered for public subscription, but were not exempted from the requirement to obtain advance approval. The ceiling on public foreign loans was raised again in May and July, a f ter which it was ma in ta ined at a constant level for the rema inder of the year. Also in May, it was announced that ceilings would no longer be imposed on capital exports in the fo rm of medium-term pri- vate placements and credits subject to authorization. The United Kingdom obtained agreement from the EEC to con t inue the application of certain controls ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES on capital transfers to other EEC countries which had been scheduled for termination, and Italy con- tinued to apply a deposit requirement of 50 per cent on most outward transfers of capital. Ireland, on the other hand, permitted the use of official exchange rather than investment currency for all approved new direct investments in EEC countries. In June, the Netherlands, which in 1972 had opened the second- ary capital market to nonresidents, reopened the guilder bond market to nonresidents. In the United States, reporting requirements on banks' foreign currency operations were increased and similar requirements were applied to nonbank- ing firms. Reporting requirements regarding opera- tions of banks' foreign branches were also increased. Finally, surveillance of inward foreign investment was intensified. Regulations were issued in February 1975 requir- ing nonbanking firms to report foreign currency posi- tions along the lines of existing reporting require- ments for U.S. banks. In October, commercial banks became subject to more detailed reporting require- ments in respect of forward foreign exchange trans- actions. Important foreign branches of U.S. banks were required from September to report the geo- graphic distribution of their assets and liabilities. In May, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States was created by Executive Order for the purpose of evaluating trends and significant devel- opments in foreign investment flows, to review major individual investments and consult with foreign gov- ernments before they undertake investments in the United States, and to consider proposing new legisla- tion. By the same order, a new Office of Foreign Investment in the United States was created in the Department of Commerce to gather and analyze information on foreign investment flows into the United States and submit reports and recommenda- tions to the Committee on Foreign Investment. The m in imum percentage of foreign ownership to be con- sidered direct investment in the United States was lowered from 25 per cent to 10 per cent, which thus became consistent with the definition of U.S. invest- ment abroad. In April 1975 the U.S. Federal Reserve Board announced a reduction, from 8 per cent to 4 per cent, in the reserve requirements on foreign borrowings of member banks. The reduction also applied to the 8 per cent reserve against Euro-dollor borrowings by foreign-owned banking institutions, which had been maintained on a voluntary basis since mid-1973. Earlier, the Board had resubmitted to Congress pro- posed legislation to standardize the regulation of for- eign banks operating in the United States on the same basis as domestic banks. In Canada in February 1975 the authorities lifted the 1970 guideline which had requested Canadians to explore fully all available sources in the domestic market, before floating bond issues abroad. Certain withholding tax changes made subsequently further contributed to a greatly increased volume of bond issues floated abroad, some denominated in Canadian dollars. The second phase of the Foreign Investment Review Act, involving the screening of inward direct investment, came into effect in October 1975. In the field of direct investment, the Federal Republic of Germany adopted a bill establishing the legal basis for the registration of the amount of foreign direct investment in the Federal Republic of Germany and of German direct investment abroad. On the basis of this law, mandatory reporting requirements were introduced in April 1976 by Ordinance. Japan eased the restrictions on both inflows and outflows of capital and in 1975 followed a basically neutral capital flows policy. On the one hand, a large volume of impact loans 9 and external bond issues was authorized. On the other hand, the domestic capital market was reopened to yen bond issues by foreign governments and international institutions, and the request to banks and securities dealers not to encourage investment in foreign securities was revoked. During 1975, Japanese banks were author- ized to issue certificates of deposit in Singapore and the United States. Inward direct investment was fur- ther liberalized. Measures to influence capital movements intro- duced in countries other than those mentioned above were in general directed at the encouragement of inward movements of funds through the banking sys- tem. An increasing number of countries, including some of the developing countries, endeavored to facilitate inflows through the domestic banking sys- tem and through foreign borrowing, particularly by the public sector. In January 1975, the Australian authorities reduced from two years to six months the minimum acceptable period for nonresident deposits with financial institutions. South Africa permitted authorized banks to apply for permission to raise funds abroad in their own name for the financing of foreign trade, and in August 1975 eased exchange controls on other forms of capital inflow. Banks in Bolivia were authorized to accept foreign currency deposits at freely negotiable interest rates, and in 9 Untied loans from nonresidents to resident nonbank firms for conversion into yen. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Korea the facilities for fore ign currency deposits were improved. Chile permitted commercial banks to establish lines of credit with fore ign correspond- ent banks without prior authorization. Iran, however, raised f rom 15 per cent to 30 per cent the reserve requ irement on net short-term foreign borrowing by commercial bank s; long-term borrowings by special- ized banks remained exempt f rom the deposit require- ment. Thailand introduced new regulations govern- ing the net foreign exchange position of banks. In Turkey the banks were permitted again to establish convertible lira accounts, mainly for nonresidents. Measures to facilitate offshore banks were taken in several countries, including Bahra in, Lebanon, Singa- pore, and the United Arab Emirates. Outside the industrialized countries, measures reduc ing restric- tions on capital inflows through nonbanks were taken in Australia, where the period to ma tu r i ty for new or ex is t ing issues of fixed-interest securities that could be purchased by nonresidents was reduced from two years to six months, and in Brazil, which for the first time admitted foreign portfolio investment to the coun try's stock exchanges. In August, however, Brazil revoked the temporary reduction in the with- holding tax on interest paymen ts on fore ign currency loans. In May 1975, Chile reduced f rom 18 months to 6 months the m in imum period fo l low ing the initial investment du r ing which capital could be repa tr ia ted. South Africa permitted enterprises to apply for per- mission to borrow abroad for periods of not less than 6 months, except for property development or con- sumer credit. In Feb rua ry 1976 S ingapo re l ibera l ized its exchange control regulations and added Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand to the list of Scheduled Territories; t rans fe rs of funds to and f rom these countries could hencefor th be made freely. In addi- tion, the limits on investments by Singapore residents in foreign currency deposits and properties outside the Scheduled Territories were raised. A number of nonindustrialized countries took fu r- ther measures to inhibit or regulate foreign owner- ship or control of domestic enterprises and resources. Australia introduced new legislation to regulate for- eign take-overs and adopted new guidelines on inward investment. Ecuador introduced regulations prohibiting the participation of foreign capital in the financial and insurance sectors but later relaxed some of these measures. Regulations tightening controls on foreign ownership were also introduced in Ghana and Zambia. The previously noted trend toward partial or total nationalization of foreign-owned or foreign-controlled enterprises continued in 1975. In 16 many cases these measures were directed at firms operating in the petroleum or related sectors. Coun- tries tak ing such actions included Bahrain, Madagas- car, Malaysia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Upper Volta, and Venezuela. In addi- t ion, Benin, Ethiopia, Mozambique, and Portugal announced the nationalization of various industries. 7. Gold The United K ingdom tightened its regulations governing gold coins, medals, and medallions in Apr il 1975. Under new exchange control regula- tions, U.K. residents other than authorized dealers in gold holding a license could no longer import gold coins m in ted a f ter 1837 and gold medals and medal- lions manu fac tu red a f t er 1837, while the manu fac- tu re of gold medals and medallions would not normally be permitted. Any post-1837 gold coins purchased in f u t u re by authorized dealers f rom per- sons resident outside the United Kingdom could not be resold to U.K. residents. Fur thermore, the export of gold bullion and of post-1837 gold coins to G ibra l tar and the Republic of Ireland was not nor- mally permitted except with the approval of the local control au tho r i t ies. The Bank of England discontin- ued its sales of gold sovereigns to residents of the Scheduled Territories ( the Un i ted K ingdom, Ireland, and G i b r a l t a r ). The holding by, and buy ing, selling, borrowing, and lending between, residents of the Un i ted K ingdom, of post-1837 gold coins and gold medals and medallions that were already in the United Kingdom remained unres tr ic ted. At the same time, Ireland made the purchase of gold coins out- side the coun t ry subject again to specific exchange control perm iss ion; such permission was henceforth normally given only for num isma t ic purposes. In Janua ry 1976, Aus tra l ia l if ted all Commonwealth restrictions on the owning, buying, and selling of gold bullion and gold coins by residents. Henceforth, Australian residents were free to export or import gold subject to normal exchange control and customs requ iremen ts. Many countries again issued legal tender gold coins, sometimes with high face values. South Africa increased the production capacity for K ruge r rand coins and the U.S.S.R. began to market a 10-ruble gold coin abroad. The United States twice sold limited quantities of gold at auctions. III. Regional Arrangements As mentioned in the previous Report, negotiations between the EEC and many developing countries of Afr ica, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS (the 46 ACP countries) 10 were concluded on Janu- ary 31, 1975, and the Lome Convention was signed on February 28, 1975, subject to ratification. The agreement succeeded both the Yaounde Agreements (of June 1, 1964 and July 29, 1969) and the Arusha Agreement (of September 24, 1964), which were to expire on January 31, .1975 but were extended un t il July 31, 1975. By the end of Janu- ary 1976, the Convention had been ratified by all EEC members and virtually all the ACP countries. Advance implementation of its trade provisions took place on July 1, 1975. The Convention came into force on April 1, 1976 and will remain in force until March 1, 1980. The Council of Ministers of the ACP countries agreed in Georgetown, Guyana, on June 5-6, 1975, on the formal establishment of the ACP group with a permanent Bureau and a General Secretariat. The Convention is open to other coun- tries having a similar economic structure to the ACP countries. During 1975, the Cape Verde Islands, Papua New Guinea, and Sao Tome e Principe applied to accede to the Convention. The EEC has undertaken to eliminate tariffs and quantitative restrictions on products representing approximately 94 per cent of the ACP countries' exports to the EEC. In contrast to the Yaounde and Arusha Agreements, the Lome Convention does not require participating developing countries to grant preferential treatment to imports from the EEC but only treatment at least as favorable as that granted to any other industrial country. A number of ACP countries have recently terminated or reduced their reverse preferences. In order to protect ACP coun- tries' export receipts against price fluctuations for certain primary commodities, the EEC has agreed to set up a stabilization fund on which ACP countries will be entitled to draw if their earnings from exports of any of 29 primary commodities to the EEC decline by a certain percentage, provided that these com- modities account for a certain m in imum share in the exporting country's total export earnings. Finally, the ACP sugar producing countries undertook to supply the EEC annually with 1.4 million tons of sugar, for which a guaranteed m in imum price will be 10 Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Burund i, Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. maintained for a period of at least seven years, with a minimum price to be fixed annually. Unlike the remainder of the Convention, these arrangements regarding sugar came into force on February 28, 1975, and are to continue with no fixed terminal date. On March 4, 1975 the Council of the EEC resolved to simplify and improve the GSP scheme applicable to imports from developing countries not participating in the Lome Convention and to prolong the scheme beyond the expiry date of 1980. On May 7, 1975, generalized preferences were extended to some additional products as f rom July 1, 1975. A GSP scheme for 1976 was proposed on June 17, 1975 and adopted on November 17, 1975. It repre- sents some fur ther liberalization; the preferential duty on most agricultural imports is reduced by 10 per cent, quotas and ceilings on most industrial goods have been increased by 15 per cent, and those on textiles and coal and steel products by 5 per cent. Negotiations with Greece on an additional protocol to the association agreement, made necessary by the enlargement of the Community, were concluded on March 7, 1975. The protocol was signed on April 28, 1975 and its trade provisions came into force on July 1, 1975, in advance of ratification. On June 12, 1975, Greece applied for fu ll membership in the European Communities; the application was later endorsed by the EEC Council of Ministers. On July 18, 1975, the Commission of the Communities presented proposals to the Council for the harmoniza- tion of agricultural policies with Greece. The first Trade and Cooperation Agreement under the general Community policy toward Mediterranean countries was signed with Israel on May 11, 1975 and came into force on July 1, 1975. It supersedes the 1970 trade agreement and is of wider scope since it includes provisions for cooperation. Under the trade provisions, there will be complete elimination of all tariff and quota barriers on Israel's industrial exports to the EEC (except for some sensitive prod- ucts) by July 1, 1977 and the EEC will reduce tar iffs on over 85 per cent of Israel's agricultural exports. By January 1, 1980, Israel is to eliminate restrictions on 60 per cent of its imports from the EEC, and by January 1, 1985 those on the remainder (with a possible extension up to January 1, 1989). On June 23-24, 1975, the Council decided in principle on concessions within the overall approach toward Mediterranean countries on imports of some agricultural products, in particular, processed fruits and vegetables, citrus fruits, out-of-season fruits and vegetables, and wine. The relevant regulations were adopted on July 22 and September 29, 1975. Nego- 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tiations on trade and cooperation agreements con- tinued with Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. On August 6, the validity of the ex is t ing trade agree- ments with Morocco and Tunisia was extended to the end of June 1976. Negotiations with these two coun tr ies were concluded in Janua ry 1976 and agree- ments were initialed on March 1, 1976. On Janu- ary 23, 1975, the Commission proposed that nego- t ia t ions be started with Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and the Syrian Arab Republic with a view to concluding overall cooperation agreements. Discussions of the Commission's manda te for such negotiations contin- ued throughout the latter part of the year on the basis of gu ide l ines set out by the Council on Ju ly 22, 1975. Negotiations started on January 28, 1976. Agree- ment was reached w i th Lebanon on September 29, 1975 (and signed on October 13, 1975) on the renewal of the cu r rent Trade and Technical Coop- eration Agreement un t il July 1, 1976. In Novem- ber 1975, the EEC Council discussed the negotiation of long-term trade agreements w i th Egypt for the supply of foods tuffs. Nego t ia t ions for a protocol to the association agreement with Malta were completed on Decem- ber 22, 1975 and the protocol was signed on March 5, 1976. Negotiations with Portugal for a wider agreement than the 1972 Free Trade Agreement reopened on June 11, 1975. On October 7, the EEC decided to establish an emergency financial aid fund for Portu- gal. The f u nd is au thor ized to grant credits up to a total of 150 million un i ts of account for inves tment projects, at a subsidized interest rate. Mexico became the fou r th Latin American coun try (fo l low ing A rgen t ina, Brazil, and U ruguay) to sign a nonpreferen t ial trade agreement with the EEC on July 15, 1975. The agreement, which seeks to encour- age trade and economic cooperation, particularly in the area of inves tmen ts, became effec t ive on Novem- ber 1, 1975. The 1971 trade agreement w i th Argen- t ina expired at the end of 1975, but was extended for a fu r th er year, pending the negotiation of a new and wider agreement. On Ju ly 22, 1975, a Commercial Cooperation Agreement, closely modeled on that concluded with India in 1974 was signed with Sri Lanka. A f u r t h er agreement was signed with India on July 18, 1975, gua ran tee ing EEC purchases of sugar along the lines of the Lome Convention arrangemen ts. Negotiations on a Commercial Cooperation Agreement with Bangladesh opened on July 2, 1975. A Joint Study Group with the Association of South East Asian 18 Na t ions (ASEAN) n was founded through an exchange of letters on May 7, 1975 and held its first mee t ing on June 26-27', 1975. Negotiations between the EEC and the members of the League of Arab States 12 (except the Libyan Arab Republic) started in Cairo on June 10, 1975. Nego t ia t ions for a nonpreferen t ial trade and cooperation agreement with Canada opened on March 11, 1976. As part of its common commercial policy, the EEC some years ago introduced a un iform liberaliza- t ion list for impor ts f rom state t rad ing countries, although each member state maintained autono- mously cer ta in quan t i ta t ive restrictions on such imports. On February 24, 1975, the Commission issued proposals to the Council concern ing the fu r- ther ad ju s tment of these au tonomous import arrange- ments. These proposals, which provided for some add i t ional import l ibera l iza t ion, were adopted by the Council on March 27, 1975. Discussions between the EEC and the CMEA took place in Moscow between February 4 and 6, 1975. The renego t ia t ion of the terms of membership of the Un i ted Kingdom in the EEC was concluded in March 1975, and a na t ional re fe rendum held on June 5, 1975 resulted in approval for continued U .K. membership. T a r i f fs between the original Com- m u n i ty and the three new members (Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom) were reduced by 20 per cent at the beg inn ing of both 1975 and 1976, leav ing a final reduction of 20 per cent to take place on Ju ly 1, 1977, except for a group of horticultural produc ts for which the deadline is Janua ry 1, 1978. On Ju ly 10, 1975 Ireland was authorized by the EEC Commission to con t inue to apply un t il December 31, 1975 a 10 per cent du ty on certain footwear imported f r om the Un i ted K ingdom and on December 22 Ire- land was authorized to apply for the period Janu- ary 1-June 30, 1976 subs tan t ia l ly higher duties than should have applied under the Act of Accession to such foo twear imported f rom other sources. In add i t ion to adop t ing principles for coordinating the reg ional aid given by member states, the EEC's own regional policy was launched in 1975. On March 18, 1975, the Council adopted basic texts 11 The members are Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Tha i land. 12 The membe rs are A lge r ia, Bah ra in, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuw a i t, Lebanon, L ibyan A rab Republic, M au r i t an i a, Morocco, Oman, Qa tar, Saudi A rab ia, Somalia, Sudan, Sy r i an A rab Repub l ic, Tun i s ia, Un i ted A rab Em ira tes, Yemen A r ab R epub l i c, People's Democ ra t ic Repub l ic of Yemen ( a nd the P a l e s t ine L ibe ra t ion O rg an i z a t ion ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS allowing the European Regional Development Fund to be established. This Development Fund became operational at the end of June, when it started to receive aid applications from member states. On October 16, 1975 the first tranche of loans amount- ing to 160.6 million units of account was approved from a total of 300 million units of account author- ized for the year 1975, and on December 18 the second and last tranche of 139.3 million units of account was approved. On January 1, 1975 the third stage of tariff dismantlement under the Free Trade Agreements between the EFTA countries and the EEC came into force. Ta r i f fs on trade between EFTA and EEC members have now been reduced by 60 per cent. The five Nordic countries 13 in December 1975 signed a treaty, subject to ratification by their parlia- ments, to found a Nordic Investment Bank with a capital of SDR 400 million. The Bank will finance primarily investment and export projects of common Nordic interest. In January 1976, the central banks of the Nordic countries agreed to certain changes in their mutual swap agreement of 1962 (revised in 1967). Under the new agreement the maximum access to swap credits by each bank is increased by over 50 per cent to SDR 60 million (SDR 10 million for Iceland) and the normal duration of the credits is extended from three to six months. The treaty establishing the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was signed in Lagos in May 1975 by the heads of state, or their representatives, of 15 West African countries.14 The Treaty came into force in June when ratified by 7 countries; by November 12, some 12 countries had ratified the agreement. The Community aims at fu r- thering cooperation between members in industry, transportation, energy, agriculture, natural resources, commerce, monetary and financial matters, and social and cultural affairs. It aims at the gradual elimination of tariff and nontariff barriers between member states over a 15-year period. For the first 2 years of opera- tion, the members have committed themselves not to increase existing duties. In the subsequent 8-year period, duties on intra-Community trade will be pro- gressively reduced and eliminated. During the final 5 years of the transition period, external tar iffs will be harmonized. A fund for cooperation, compensa- tion, and development will be set up, in part to 13 These are Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. 14 Benin, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. compensate those members suffering a severe loss of revenue following the reduction in tariffs. Safe- guards are also provided for members having sectors adversely affected by the tariff reductions. The Council of Ministers of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA )15 adopted a new set of directives for banking operations within the Union at a meeting in Dakar on May 2. The Articles of Agreement for a West African Clearing House were initialed by representatives of some 12 West African Countries 1G at a conference of the West African Sub- regional Committee of the Association of African Central Banks in Lagos on March 13. At a meeting of the heads of state of the member countries of the West African Economic Community (CEAO) 17 on April 7-8, it was agreed to start the operations of the Community Development Fund on January 1, 1976. The Development Fund will be financed from the proceeds of a regional cooperation tax levied on an agreed list of industrial goods pro- duced within the Community. The purpose of the tax and the Development Fund is to transfer revenue from those sectors benefiting from a wider market to those states whose revenue from tariffs has been reduced as a result of the creation of the Community. In mid-June, representatives of Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire agreed at a meeting in Kigali on a draft convention for an Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). The member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC )18 agreed at a meeting in Bangui on June 20-21 to establish a Central African Develop- ment Bank. On November 14, a Commission started work in Nairobi to review the constitution of the East African Community, the structure, composition, and functioning of its institutions and to submit agreed conclusions to the East African Authority within 12 months. An Association to promote intra- African trade was founded in Tangiers on April 4. The first meeting of the Governing Council of the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa took place in January 1975. The Bank has an authorized capital of US$231 million, of which US$55.25 mil- lion was paid up by the end of July 1975 and the 15 Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 16 Ben in, The Gambia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 17 Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 18 Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS remainder was scheduled for payment over the next two years. The Bank gave its first loans in Novem- ber 1975 and in the same month it was decided to authorize an increase in capital to US$500 million. The question of the creation of an Arab Monetary Fund (AMF) was referred to the Committee of Gov- ernors of Arab Central Banks by the Council of Arab Economic Un i ty, in December 1974. At its meeting in Baghdad on February 22-24, 1975, the Council of Governors agreed in principle to create the AMF with a capital of 750 million Arab d ina rs (1 Arab dinar = SDR 1 ), of which half is to be raised initially. Discussions continued throughout the year on the technical aspects of the AMF and at a meeting in Rabat on November 19, the statutes of the AMF were adopted ad re fe rendum by Governors of the central banks of 17 Arab states.19 Among the aims of the AMF are the redressing of members' balance of payments deficits, the stabilization of members' exchange rates, the coordination of the mone tary systems and policies of members, the lib- eralization of mone tary, financial, and trade relations between members, and the ultimate establishment of a un if ied Arab currency. On June 15, 1975 representatives of Bah ra in, Kuwait, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates agreed in pr inc ip le to work toward the un i f ica t ion of the ir currencies. At a meeting in Bahrain on Novem- ber 1-2, the goal of a monetary un ion of these states was a f f i rmed. On November 13, these four states, along w i th Oman and Saudi Arabia, announced the creation of a development bank, the Gulf Interna- tional Bank. The authorized capital of th is Bank is US$60 million, with the possibility of raising the sum to US$100 million. At the Twentieth Session of the Economic Coun- cil of the League of Arab States in Janua ry 1975, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) was called upon to provide long-term loans at low interest rates for in f ras t ruc tu re projects in Arab countries. In April, the AFESD Board of Governors decided to accelerate the call-up of capital so that the full amount of KD 101.95 million would be paid up by February 1976. (At the end of 1974, KD 35 million had been paid up .) It was also decided to raise the authorized capital of the AFESD to KD 400 million, to be called up in eight years starting February 1976. 19 Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Libyan A rab Republic, M au r i t an i a, Morocco, Oman, Qa ta r, Saudi Arab ia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian A rab Republic, Tun is ia, United Arab Emirates, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 20 The Islamic Development Bank, founded in August 1974 and with headquarters in Jeddah, held its inaugural mee t ing on July 26, 1975. The Bank has 26 members.20 The authorized capital of the Bank was raised to 2 billion Islamic d inars (1 Islamic dinar = SDR 1 ). It was decided that an initial subscrip- t ion of 750 million Islamic dinars should be paid in five equal annual installments, starting in 1975. The Bank started its operations on October 20. On May 3, 1975, the Council of Ministers of the Organ iza t ion of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) 21 agreed to renew the Special Account to Ease the Financial Burdens of the Arab Petroleum Impo r t ing Countries for 1975. The Arab Organization for the Encouragement of Inves tment was founded by 15 countries 22 on June 1, 1975. The Organization is intended to protect the inves tmen ts of the signatories and to encourage the movement of capital between them by issuing guar- antees. In i t ial au thor ized capital is KD 10 million, but th is is to be raised to KD 30 million in the fu tu re. Twenty-five Western Hemisphere countries 2a for- mally established the Latin American Economic System (SELA) at a mee t ing in Panama on Octo- ber 17, 1975. SELA is in tended to be a permanent regional organization for consultation, coordination, and coopera t ion for j o i nt economic and social devel- opment. A permanent secretariat has been created w i th headqua r te rs in Caracas. Among the aims of SELA are the de fense of prices and markets for raw materials, the creation of Latin American multina- t ional companies, the channe l ing of financial resources and technology to the region, and the exchange of indu s t r ial and mone tary experience. Du r ing the course of 1975, the member countries of the Andean Pact reached agreement on a common program for the petrochemical industry. It did not 20 Membe rs are A fgh an i s t an, A lge r ia, Bah ra in, Bangla- desh, Cameroon, Egypt, Gu inea, Indonesia, Jo rdan, Kuwait, Libyan A rab Repub l ic, Ma lays ia, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, N ige r, Oman, Pak i s tan, Qatar, Saudi Arab ia, Somalia, Sudan, Syr ian A rab Repub l ic, Tunisia, Tu rkey, Un i ted Arab Em i ra tes, and Yemen A rab Repub l ic. 21 Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwa i t, Libyan Arab Repub l ic, Qa ta r, Saudi A rab ia, Sy r ian A rab Republic, and Un i ted A r ab Emirates. 22 A lger ia, Egypt, Iraq, Jo rd an, Kuw a i t, Lebanon, Libyan A rab Repub l ic, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, Qatar, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen A rab Republic. 23 A rgen t ina, Barbados, Bolivia, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Costa R ica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salva- dor, G renada, Gu a t em a l a, Guy an a, H a i t i, Honduras, Ja- maica, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Trini- dad and Tobago, U r u g u a y, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS prove possible to agree on the programs for other industrial sectors in particular for the automobile industry, or on a common external tariff by the December 31, 1975 deadline laid down in the Carta- gena Agreement. On February 11, negotiations were initiated in Lima on revising the Pact's foreign invest- ment regulations; these discussions continued through- out the year. An agreement was reached in principle to set up a US$400 million fund to finance balance of payments deficits of member countries. Hitherto, financial cooperation by the Andean countries has been limited to the financing of projects by the Andean Development Corporation. In 1974, a Draft Treaty establishing a Central American Economic and Social Community was pre- pared. Discussion of the draft continued throughout 1975 by the High Level Committee established under the auspices of the Permanent Secretariat of the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration (SIECA). In October, the Central American Monetary Stabilization Fund gave loans of US$25 million each to El Salvador and Honduras, and a loan of US$10 million to Nicaragua. This represents the first use of the Fund since its estab- lishment in 1970. In October the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 24 reached agreement at a meeting in Georgetown, Guyana, on the Common External Tariff of the Common Market. On December 13, a decision in principle was taken to establish a fund of US$350 million to aid members with balance of payments difficulties. On July 31, the Bangkok Agreement was initialed by India, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Philippines, Korea, Sri Lanka, and Thailand (Bangla- 24 The members are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Domi- nica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. desh initialed the agreement la ter). Under the agree- ment, the signatories agree to preferential tariff cuts of between 10 and 80 per cent (averaging about 33.5 per cent) and the binding of some most-favored- nation tariff rates on imports from each other of some 131 goods, including many manufactures and some foods tu f fs such as sugar, fish, coconut oil, and beans, amounting in value to US$50 million annually. In addition, tariffs will be cut on imports by all sig- natories on 29 fur ther items imported from the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Participants pledge to strive to prevent the raising of tariff and nontariff barriers on products of export interest to other participants. Signatories may also give additional preferences to the least developed and landlocked signatories. The agreement will come into force 30 days af ter ratification by three signatories and remains open to any developing member country of the United Nations Economic and Social Commis- sion for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). It will be administered by a standing committee. The Asian Clearing Union (ACU) started opera- tions on November 1. The ACU is a facility for the multilateral clearing of payments for some cur- rent international transactions between participants (Bangladesh, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka ). Settlements between India and Nepal and between Pakistan and Iran are excepted. Payments are denominated in Asian monetary units (1 Asian monetary unit = SDR 1), or participants' currencies. Settlements are made monthly in U.S. dollars or in other mutually acceptable currencies. The operations of the ACU are carried out by the Bank Markazi Iran, as agent. On October 15, the member countries of ASEAN formed a Council on Petroleum. On November 27, these countries agreed, in principle, on the gradual lowering of mutual tariff barriers and the eventual creation of an ASEAN Free Trade Zone. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The text of Article IV and of Schedule C as proposed in the Second Am e n dm e nt to the Ar t ic les of Agreement is reproduced below. APPENDIX Article IV Obligations Regarding Exchange Arrangements Section 1. General obligations of members Recognizing that the essential purpose of the in te rna- t ional mone ta ry system is to provide a f ramewo rk that fac i l i ta tes the exchange of goods, services, and cap i tal among countries, and that su s ta ins sound economic grow th, and that a pr inc ipal ob jec t ive is the c o n t i n u i ng development of the o rde r ly u n d e r l y i ng cond i t ions th at are necessary for f i n a n c i al and economic s tab i l i ty, each member unde r takes to collaborate with the Fund and other members to assure orderly exchange a r rangemen ts and to promote a stable system of exchange rates. In p a r t i cu l a r, each member shall: ( i) endeavor to d irect i ts econom ic and f i n a n c i al policies toward the objective of fos ter ing orderly econom ic grow th w i th reasonable price s tab i l i ty, w i th due regard to its c i rcums tances; ( i i) seek to promote s tab i l i ty by fos te r ing order ly und e r ly ing economic and f i n a n c i al cond i t ions and a mone tary system that does not tend to produce erra t ic d i s rup t ion s; ( i i i) avoid man ipu la t ing exchange rates or the in te r- na t ional mone ta ry system in order to prevent effec t ive ba lance of paymen ts ad ju s tm ent or to gain an u n f a ir compe t i t ive advan tage over other membe rs; and fo l low exchange policies compa t ib le w i th the und e r t ak in gs u n d er this Section. ( i v) Section 2. Genera] exchange arrangements (a) Each member shall no t i fy the Fund, w i th in th ir ty days a f t er the date of the second amendment of this Ag reemen t, of the exchange a r rangemen ts it in tends to app ly in f u l f i l lm e nt of its obligations und er Section 1 of th is A r t ic le, and shall n o t i fy the Fund p r om p t ly of any changes in i ts exchange a r rangemen t s. (b) Under an i n t e r n a t i o n al mone ta ry system of the k ind p reva i l ing on J anu a ry 1, 1976, exchange arrange- men ts may inc lude ( i) the m a i n t e n a n ce by a member of a va lue for its cu r rency in terms of the special d r aw i ng r ight or ano ther d enom in a to r, other th an gold, selected by the membe r, or ( i i) cooperative a r rangemen ts by which members m a i n t a in the va lue of the ir currenc ies in re la t ion to the va lue of the cu r rency or currenc ies of other members, or ( i i i) o ther exchange a r r ang em en ts of a member's choice. (c) To accord w i th the development of the in terna- t ional mone ta ry system, the Fund, by an eighty-five 22 percent m a jo r i ty of the total vo t ing power, may make prov is ion for general exchange arrangemen ts w i thout l im i t i ng the r ight of members to have exchange arrange- men ts of their choice consistent w i th the purposes of the F u nd and the ob l iga t ions under Section 1 of th is Article. Section 3. Surveillance over exchange arrangements (a) The Fund shall oversee the in te rna t ional mone- t a ry system in order to ensure its effec t ive operation, and sha ll oversee the comp l iance of each member w i th its o b l i g a t i o ns und er Section 1 of this Article. (b) In order to f u l f i ll i ts f u n c t i o ns under (a) above, the Fund shall exercise firm surveillance over the exchange ra te policies of members, and shall adopt spec if ic p r inc ip les for the gu idance of all members w i th respect to those policies. Each member shall provide the Fund w i th the i n f o rm a t i on necessary for such sur- v e i l l an c e, a n d, wh en requested by the Fund, shall consult w i th it on the membe rs exchange rate policies. The p r in c ip l es adopted by the Fund shall be consistent w i th coope ra t ive a r rangemen ts by wh ich members m a i n t a in the v a lue of the ir currenc ies in re la t ion to the value of the cu r r en cy or currenc ies of other members, as well as w i th other exchange arrangemen ts of a member's choice cons is tent w i th the purposes of the Fund and Section 1 of th is A r t ic le. These pr inc ip les shall respect the domes- tic social and political policies of members, and in app ly ing these principles the Fund shall pay due regard to the c i rcum s tances of members. Section 4. Par values The Fund may de te rm ine, by an e igh ty-f ive percent m a j o r i ty of the total vo t ing power, that in te rna t ional economic cond i t ions perm it the introduction of a wide- spread system of exchange a r r ang em en ts based on stable but ad ju s tab le par va lues. The Fund shall make the d e t e rm i n a t i on on the bas is of the und e r ly ing s tab i l i ty of the wo r ld economy, and for t h is purpose shall take in to account price movemen ts and rates of expans ion in the econom ies of members. The d e t e rm in a t ion shall be made in l ight of the evo lu t ion of the in t e rn a t ion al mone- t a ry sys tem, w i th p a r t i cu l ar reference to sources of l i q u i d i t y, and, in order to ensu re the e f fec t ive operation of a system of par values, to a r rangemen ts under which both members in surplus and members in deficit in their ba lances of paymen ts take p romp t, e f fec t ive, and sym- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX metrical action to achieve adjustment, as well as to arrangements for intervention and the treatment of imbalances. Upon making such determination, the Fund shall notify members that the provisions of Schedule C apply. Section 5. Separate currencies within a member's territories (a) Action by a member w i th respect to its currency under this Article shall be deemed to apply to the sepa- rate currencies of all territories in respect of which the member has accepted this Agreement under Arti- cle XXXI, Section 2(g) unless the member declares that its action relates either to the metropolitan currency alone, or only to one or more specified separate curren- cies, or to the metropolitan currency and one or more specified separate currencies. (b) Action by the Fund under this Article shall be deemed to relate to all currencies of a member referred to in (a) above unless the Fund declares otherwise. Schedule C Par Values 1. The Fund shall no t ify members that par values may be established for the purposes of this Agreement, in accordance with Article IV, Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 and this Schedule, in terms of the special drawing right, or in terms of such other common denominator as is prescribed by the Fund. The common denom ina tor shall not be gold or a currency. 2. A member that intends to establish a par value for its currency shall propose a par value to the Fund within a reasonable time after notice is given under 1 above. 3. Any member that does not intend to establish a par value for its currency under 1 above shall consult with the Fund and ensure that its exchange arrangements are consistent with the purposes of the Fund and are adequate to fu lf i ll its obligations under Article IV, Section 1. 4. The Fund shall concur in or object to a proposed par value within a reasonable period after receipt of the proposal. A proposed par value shall not take effect for the purposes of this Agreement if the Fund objects to it, and the member shall be subject to 3 above. The Fund shall not object because of the domestic social or politi- cal policies of the member proposing the par value. 5. Each member that has a par value for its currency undertakes to apply appropriate measures consistent with this Agreement in order to ensure that the max imum and the minimum rates for spot exchange transactions taking place within its territories between its currency and the currencies of other members ma in ta in ing par values shall not differ from parity by more than four and one-half per cent or by such other margin or mar- gins as the Fund may adopt by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power. 6. A member shall not propose a change in the par value of its currency except to correct, or prevent the emergence of, a fundamental disequilibrium. A change may be made only on the proposal of the member and only after consultation with the Fund. 7. When a change is proposed, the Fund shall concur in or object to the proposed par value within a reason- able period after receipt of the proposal. The Fund shall concur if it is satisfied that the change is necessary to correct, or prevent the emergence of, a fundamental dis- equilibrium. "The Fund shall not object because of the domestic social or political policies of the member proposing the change. A proposed change in par value shall not take effect for the purposes of this Agreement if the Fund objects to it. If a member changes the par value of its currency despite the objection of the Fund, the member shall be subject to Article XXVI, Section 2. Ma in tenance of an unrealistic par value by a member shall be discouraged by the Fund. 8. The par value of a member's currency established under this Agreement shall cease to exist for the pur- poses of this Agreement if the member informs the Fund that it intends to terminate the par value. The Fund may object to the termination of a par value by a decision taken by an eighty-five percent majority of the total voting power. If a member terminates a par value for its currency despite the objection of the Fund, the mem- ber shall be subject to Article XXVI, Section 2. A par value established under this Agreement shall cease to exist for the purposes of this Agreement if the member terminates the par value despite the objection of the Fund, or if the Fund finds that the member does not ma in ta in rates for a substantial volume of exchange transactions in accordance with 5 above, provided that the Fund may not make such finding unless it has con- sulted the member and given it sixty days notice of the Fund's in ten t ion to consider whether to make a finding. 9. If the par value of the currency of a member has ceased to exist under 8 above, the member shall consult with the Fund and ensure that its exchange arrange- ments are consistent with the purposes of the Fund and 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS u n i f o rm p ropo r t iona te changes in all par values if the special draw ing right is the common denominator and the changes will not a f fect the v a lue of the special draw- . u, ^u ^ f u » u « mg r igh t. The par v a lue of a member s currency shall, , u , , A, . . . .£ .A, . however, not be changed u n d er this provision i f, w i th in , f. ^ ^ ,, .. ., , seven days a f t er the Fund s action, the member informs the Fund that it does not wish the par va lue of its cur- rency to be changed by such action. . u . r are adequate to f u l f i ll its obligations und er Ar t ic le IV, Section 1. 10. A member for whose cu r rency the par va lue has n , . ceased to exist under 8 above may, at any t ime, propose a new par va lue for its currency. J 11. No tw i ths tand ing 6 above, the Fund, by a seventy percent ma jo r i ty of the total vo t ing power, may make r 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including two non- metropolitan territories, are given. The exchange sys- tems of two other countries which were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1975. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1976. The description of an exchange system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include refer- ences to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Simi- larly, the section "Changes du r ing 1975" may include references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revi- sions of import tar iffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in draf t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more signifi- cant changes which took place in the restrictive system dur ing 1975. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value and /or the central rate and/or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of SDRs, gold, and /or U.S. dol- lars, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, further details are given in a Table of Exchange Rates (see below). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1975, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous terri- tories whose residents have common rights and obliga- tions under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical work ing purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Pay- ments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resi- dent in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and opera- tion of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licens- ing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on pay- ments for imports and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other inter- national transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of perm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limita- tions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a free market. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency un i ts per U.S. dollar. The tables inc lude effec- tive rates a r is ing f r om the nego t ia t ion of percentages of the total exchange at d i f f e r ent rates, the impos i t ion of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certifi- cates, etc. Under Changes during 1975, the more s ign if icant changes in the coun t ry 's exchange and trade system d u r i ng 1975 are presented in chronological order. Impor- t ant measures made effective in the early months of 1976 are ind ica ted in cer ta in surveys in foo tno tes to the text. * * * The individual coun try surveys were prepared by the s ta ff of the Fund and reviewed by the au thor i t ies of the coun tr ies concerned. Prepara t ion of this part of the Report was und er the general d irec t ion of Mr. J. H. C. de Looper, Adv isor at Ass is tant Director level, Exchange and Trade Re la t ions Depar tmen t. Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions govern ing exchange derived f rom transac t ions in inv is- ibles are g iven, and any l im i t a t ions on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general ind ica t ion of the special a r rangemen ts or l im i ta t ions attached to in te rna t ional receipts and paymen ts in respect of capital i tems is given. Where special a r rangemen ts for fore ign cap i tal also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt w i th in this section ra ther than in the sections on Pay- men ts for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. Under Gold, the pr inc ipal provisions are summar ized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for certain coun tr ies h av ing a mu l t ip le currency prac- tice invo lv ing more than two ra te levels, the exchange rates effec t ive on a specified date are given. For conve- nience, the data in these tables are in terms of local 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System 1 On March 22, 1963, an initial par value was estab- lished of 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani, cor- responding at the time to Af 45 = SDR 1. No exchange transactions take place at the par value. The Afghani- stan Bank (the central b ank) quotes official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively. The official selling rate applies to certain foreign exchange payments by the Central Gov- ernment (debt service, contributions to international organizations, and the foreign exchange requirements of Afghan embassies and missions ab road ). The official buying rate applies to 40 per cent of the foreign cur- rency salaries of foreign employees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies and to purchases of bilateral agreement currencies for mainte- nance in Afghanistan of embassies and state trad ing organizations by the respective bilateral partner coun- tries. The Afghan is tan Bank charges commissions ranging from Mo of 1 per cent to l/2 of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. Special arrangements are applicable to cotton and wool when exported to bilateral countries, i.e., countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force.2 The surrender rate for proceeds from wool exports to bilateral countries is Af 60 per US$1 (official rate plus subsidy of Af 15 per US$1), of which Af 3 must be held in a special account, resulting in an effective exchange rate of Af 57 per US$1. The surrender rate for proceeds from cotton exports to bilateral countries is in principle Af 60 per US$1 (official rate plus subsidy of Af 15 per US$1), but this arrangement has been temporarily sus- pended and for the time being settlement takes place at the free market buying rate of Af 57 per US$1. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The Afghanistan Bank generally maintains its opera- tional free market selling rate for the U.S. dollar within Af 2.0 per US$1 of the free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1975, the free market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 57 buying, and Af 59 1 Certain changes in the exchange rate system took place in January 1976. The commercial banks were allowed to set their exchange rates freely, rather than at the free market rates quoted by the Afghanistan Bank. They began to quote rates close to the bazaar free market rates (which at the time were Af 55.25 buy ing, and Af 55.75 selling, per US$1). At the same time, the Afghanistan Bank lowered its selling rate f rom Af 59 per US$1 to Af 58 per US$1 while maintaining the buy ing rate unchanged at Af 57 per US$1; as before, the Bank stood ready to purchase all proceeds f rom exports only. In addition, central government paymen ts previously made at the official selling rate of Af 45.30 per US$1 henceforth were made at the Afghan is tan Bank's f ree market selling rate. 2 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia. There is also a bilateral payments arrangement with India under which the bulk of t rade is settled th rough a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees with the Reserve Bank of India. selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 54.28 buying, and Af 54.78 selling, per US$1. The Afghanistan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their relative values to the U.S. dol- lar in international markets, and free market rates for the Indian rupee and the Pakistan rupee, which are determined by demand and supply for the currencies concerned. The Afghanistan Bank from time to time buys and sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting partly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bilateral payments agreements; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by government commer- cial and industrial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for Czechoslo- vakian, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslav clearing dollars was Af 59.00 per US$1 on December 31, 1975, and that for clearing sterling under the payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was Af 170.00 per <£ stg. 1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializ- ing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodi- ties, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for seven authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be made in the for- eign currencies specified in the agreements. The pro- ceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license but import transac- tions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fulfill- 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN merit of the commitments under taken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may also be made against bills for collection or against an under- tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equiva- lent to the payment made through the bank ing system. A deposit of 100 per cent of the va lue of the imports in afghanis calculated at the prevailing free market rate, or in fore ign exchange, is required upon establishment of a letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans f rom commercial banks. The A fghan i- stan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of certain consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential; the commercial banks are obliged to con fo rm with the central bank's practices. However, exchange for these items may be purchased in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for fore ign debt service and cer ta in other invisibles are made at the o f f ic ial rate (but see footnote 1 ). All other paymen ts are settled at free market rates. There is an exchange allocation f rom the banks for tourist travel abroad of the equ iva lent of US$800 a person a trip, for one tr ip a year, and for business travel of the equivalent of US$20 a day for a max imum of one mon th. The allocation for medical t rea tment abroad is US$20 a day for the Un i ted States, Europe, and Japan, and US$10 a day for other As ian countries; there are, in addition, allocations for accom- pany ing persons. Specific permission is required for the export by travelers of foreign currency notes in excess of the equivalent of US$50. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 500 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license but export transac t ions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Karakul is not normally exported to paymen ts agreement countries. Exchange receipts f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the appropriate exchange rate (see section on Exchange Ra te System, above). The net proceeds of all other exports must either be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, walnuts, and raisins. 30 Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of for- eign employees of the A fghan public and private sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the r em a in ing 60 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of Ind ia, receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts f rom the embassies and state trad ing organiza- tions of the countries concerned for their local expenses in A fghan i s tan are converted at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers en te r ing A fghan i s tan may not bring in more than Af 500 in A fghan banknotes. Capital Foreign inves tment in A fghan is tan requires prior approval and is administered, as is domestic private inves tmen t, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Pri- vate Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include ( 1) income tax exemption for four years, beginning f r om the date of the first sales of products resulting f rom the new investment; (2) exemption f rom import duties on essential imports (ma in ly of capital goods); (3) exemp- t ion f rom taxes on dividends for four years af ter the first d is tr ibu t ion of d iv idends, but not more than seven years a f t er the approval of the inves tmen t; (4) exemption f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on fore ign loans which constitute part, of an approved inves tmen t; ( 5) exemption f rom export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) manda to ry purchases by government agencies and depa r tmen ts of their requirements f rom enterprises estab- lished under the law where prices of such products are no more than 15 per cent higher than the price of importable equivalents. The law provides that foreign inves tment in A fghan i s tan can only take place through jo int ventures, w i th fore ign participation not exceeding 49 per cent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no fu r th er license to operate in Afghan is tan. Pr inc ipal and interest ins ta l lmen ts on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Prof i ts may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repa tr ia ted af ter five years at an annu al rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total regis- tered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell domes- t ica l ly gold in any fo rm in A fghan i s tan. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of M in is ters; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorities and indus t r ial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any fo rm unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. The import du ty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1975 During the year, the foreign exchange allocation for tourist travel was doubled. February 16. The buying rate for U.S.S.R. clearing dollars was changed f rom Af 61 to Af 60 per US$1. and Yugoslav clearing dollars was changed from Af 65 February 26. The buy ing rate for Czechoslovakian and Yugoslav clearing dollars was changed from Af 65 to Af 64 per US$1. June 30. The special exchange rate arrangements for proceeds from ka raku l, cotton, and wool exported to multilateral markets were eliminated, under which the foreign exchange had been eligible either for a fixed "ceiling rate" or the free market rate, whichever was lower. Such proceeds henceforth had to be surrendered at the free market rate, whatever its level. June 30. The import of cer ta in goods considered non- essential was prohibited. They included alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, plywood, chewing gum, honey, and various other foods tuffs. Subsequently, import duties on some 30 other items were increased. AFGHANISTAN July 12. The buying rates for Czechoslovakian, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslav clearing dollars were changed to Af 58 per US$1, and that for clearing sterling for trans- actions with the People's Republic of China was changed to Af 175 per <£ stg. 1. October 29. The two special exchange rates for exports of wa lnu ts to the U.S.S.R. and to other Eastern European countries were abolished; all exports of wa lnu ts henceforth were settled at the free market rate, subject to the existing tax of 9.5 per cent. October 29. The special exchange rate of Af 60 per US$1 for cotton exports to bilateral countries was sus- pended for a period of one year, dur ing which the pro- ceeds would be settled at the free market rate. October 30. The A fghan is tan Bank's free market buy- ing and selling rates for Czechoslovakian, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslav clearing dollars were changed to Af 57 and Af 59, respectively, and thus were unified with the "mul- tilateral" free market rate for the U.S. dollar, which remained unchanged. October 30. The buying rate for clearing sterling for transactions with the People's Republic of China was changed to Af 170 per <£ stg. 1. On November 22 it was fu r ther changed to Af 165 per £ stg. 1. November. The proceeds from exports of natural gas, which previously were settled at the official buy ing rate, were converted at the Afghanistan Bank's free ma rket rate. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.180000 g ram of fine gold per A lge r ian D ina r. A lger ia avails itself of w ider ma rg in s. Since J anu a ry 21, 1974 A lge r ia has fo l lowed an inde- pendent exchange ra te policy. Da i ly buy ing and se l l ing rates for specified currencies l are established by the Cen tral Bank of A lger ia. On December 30, 1975, the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar were DA 4 .1175 and DA 4 .1325, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank charges on its t ran sac t ions in fo re ign currenc ies a comm i s s ion r a n g i ng f r om 0 .2 per m i ll to 0 .4 per m i l l, d ep end ing on the n a t u re of the t r a n s a c t i o n, and a tax of 6 per cent on the am o u nt of the comm i s s ion. An e n c o u r a g em e nt p r em i um is g ran ted on the conversion of convertible currenc ies repa tr ia ted by A lge r ians wo rk ing ab road. The fore ign exchange reserves are cen t ra l ized in the Cen t ral B a n k; au tho r ized banks mu st clear the ir fo r e ign cu r rency position w i th th e ir fo re ign co r responden ts at the end of each day but u n d er c e r t a in c o n d i t i o n s, they are pe rm i t ted to hold ou t s ide A lge r ia cover for d o c u- m e n t a ry cred i ts. There are no f o rw a rd exchange f a c i l i t i e s. Administration of Control The M in i s t ry of F inance and the Central Bank have general j u r i s d i c t i on over exchange con t ro l. The Cen t ral Bank assists in the fo rmu l a t ion of the exchange legisla- t i on and regu la t ions and is re spon s ib le for th e ir execu- t ion and for the ir app l i c a t ion by the au tho r ized bank s. In a d d i t i o n, th ree comme rc ial b a n ks and the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i on have been g iven au tho r i ty to ca r ry out many of the de ta i ls of exchange con t ro l. Import and export licenses and global im p o rt quo tas are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Impo rt and export licenses requ i re the v i sa of the Cen t ral B a n k. The Off ice N a t i o n al de Comme rc ia l isa t ion (ONA CO ), the Office Algerien In t e rp ro f e s s ionn el de Cereales (OA I C ), the Off ice Na t ional de Comme rc ia l i sa t ion des P rodu i ts V i t iv in i- coles (ONCV ), the Societe N a t i o n a le des Tabacs et A l l um e t t es (SNTA), the Societe N a t i o n a le d 'E d i t i on et de D i f f u s i on ( SNED ), the Societe N a t i o n a le de Side- ru rg ie (SNS ), the Societe N a t ion a le de Con s t ruc t ions Mecan iques ( SONACOME ), and other s im i l ar organ iza- t ions have a monopo ly over the im p o rt of a la rge n um- ber of commodities. The Societe N a t ion a le pour la Recherche, la P roduc t ion, le T ran spo r t, la T ran s fo r- ma t ion et la Commerc ia l isa t ion des Hyd ro c a rbu r es ( SONATRACH) has a monopo ly over impo r ts and domes- tic sales of pe tro leum and pe t ro leum p roduc ts, and hand les most exports of these commod i t ie s. Inv e s tm ent 1 A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C an ad i an do l la r s, Danish k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i ld e r s, Nor- weg ian k ron e r, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pese tas, Swedish k r o n e r, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. do l lars. 32 of fo re ign cap i tal in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requ i res app roval by a N a t i o n al Inve s tment Committee in order to o b t a in the benef i ts of the Inves tment Code. Fo re ign b o r r ow i ng requ i res the prior approval either of the M i n i s t er of F inance or of the Cen tral Bank. Prescription of Currency A lge r ia has ce r ta in t r a d i t i o n al ties w i th the French F ranc Area but the C en t r al Bank does not m a i n t a in an Ope ra t ions Account w i th the French Treasury and A lg e r ia in p r i n c i p le app l ies i ts exchange controls to t r a n s a c t i o ns w i th a ll c o u n t r i e s .2 Se t t lemen ts w i th coun- t r ies in the French F ranc Area a re gene ra l ly made in F rench f r a n c s. Se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r i es w i th wh ich A lge r ia has concluded b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are m ade t h r o u gh special accoun ts u n d er the terms of the agreemen ts. Some of these accounts are denom ina ted in A l g e r i an d i n a rs and others in U.S. do l lars of accoun t. A lge r ia m a i n t a i ns p aym en ts ag reemen ts w i th A lban ia, B u l g a r i a, the People's R epub l ic of C h i n a, Egyp t, Gu in e a, G u i n e a -B i s s a u, H u n g a r y, No r th Ko rea, R om a n i a, the U.S.S.R., and Yugos lav ia . •'• Specified noncomme rc ial s e t t l em e n ts w i th Morocco and Tun i s ia a re channe led th rough a d i r h am account at the Bank of Morocco and an a c count in T u n i s i an d i n a rs at the Cen tral Bank of T u n i s i a. Nonresident Accounts For r e s id en ts of c o u n t r i es ou t s ide the French Franc A r e a, the r e g u l a t i o ns p e r t a i n i ng to non re s ident accounts are s im i l ar to those app l ied before 1962; most of these accoun ts are Fore ign Accoun ts in Conve r t ib le D ina rs or I n t e r n a t i o n al Non res ident Accounts. For residents of French F ranc Area coun t r i e s, the re are three types of accoun ts in A l g e r i an d i n a r s: Ind iv idual Suspense A c coun t s, F ranc A rea Accoun t s, and F inal Depar ture A c coun t s. Except as described below, all opera t ions t h r o u gh these accoun ts a re sub ject to au tho r iza t ion. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened w i thout a u t h o r i z a t i on and may be c red i ted w i th paymen ts f rom any c o u n t r y. Ba lances in such accoun ts opened p r ior to J a n u a ry 1, 1975 by non res ident physical persons of f o r e i gn n a t i o n a l i ty have been released for t r a n s f er abroad. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only w i th prior a u t h o r i z a t i on f r om the Cen t ral Bank. They may be c r ed i t ed f r e e ly for a u t h o r i z ed impo r ts f r om the French F ranc A r e a, and w i th proceeds f r om the sale of convert- 2 Since F e b r u a ry 1967, F r a n ce has app l ied to A lger ia its con tro ls on f o r e i gn i n v e s tm e n ts in F r an ce and on F r en ch inv e s tm en ts abroad. The exchange con t ro ls imposed by F rance on November 25, 1968 in its f inanc ial r e l a t i o ns w i th f o r e i gn c o u n t r i es a re also applied to A lg e r i a. :! The a g r e em e n ts w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, H u n g a r y, R om a n i a, and Yugo s l av ia exp i r ed on December 31, 1975; w i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1976, s e t t l em e n ts w i th tho se c o u n t r i es took place in c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en c i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ible currencies; w i th proceeds f rom the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the credit- ing of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lg e r i a ); for any t rans fer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repay- ment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, w i thout prior au thor iza t ion, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty, who intends to leave Algeria for another coun try in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equ iva lent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person con- cerned; w i th the proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the f u n ds are paid directly by a notary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through the in termed iary of a b ank; and w i th any other payments, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other speci- fic payments. These accounts may be debited w i thout prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward t rans fe rs require ind i- vidual approval; certain balances were released on September 25, 1974 for t ran s fer abroad. The Central Bank ma in ta ins special accounts for central banks of the countries w i th wh ich Algeria has concluded paymen ts agreements. Nonresidents may m a in t a in certain accounts in Algeria that are fed w i th the proceeds f rom the conver- sion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne-devises). Depositors receive a prem ium equivalent in principle to one e igh th of the amoun ts deposited; in practice, the prem ium is a flexible one ensu r ing an effective conver- sion rate of F 1 = DA 1. Withdrawals may be made in Algerian d in a rs only. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Commodities listed under some 600 ta r i ff headings and subheadings are liberalized and do not require impo rt licenses. All other imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance w i th an annual import pro- gram. This is implemented ma in ly through global import authorizations (autorisations globales d'importa- tion or AG I) granted to public enterprises or sometimes to private enterprises. A small number of restricted commodities (produits contingentes) requires an indi- vidual import license (autorisation prealable d'impor- tation or AP I ), unless covered by a global import ALGERIA authorization. Imports made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compen- sation of any k ind, are exempt f rom all exchange and trade control forma l i t ies, but not from any absolute import proh ib i t ion, when valued at D 1,000 or less. The Government in principle has the monopoly over the impo r ta t ion of many commodities through ONACO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH, SONACOME, and other similar organizations, but imports are not necessarily restricted to the monopoly holders. All impor ts must prior to the transaction be domi- ciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary impo rt documen ts must be presented and through which all paymen ts related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the impo rt value, whichever is smaller. Payments for impo r ts may be approved by, and settled through, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion up to an import value of DA 5,000. All ind iv idual import licenses require the v isa of the Central Bank. Impor ters may purchase the necessary exchange from the bank concerned when they have domiciled the t ransac t ion. Some imports may be paid for as soon as the t ransac t ion has been domiciled. For other imports, unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial con tract approved by the authorities, payment to the fo re ign exporter may be made only af ter the shipping documen ts have been presented to the bank; the impo r ter may in this case, a f ter having domiciled the impo r t, open a documen tary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Goods subject to impo rt license and quota restrictions may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the va lue of a sh ipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives du r ing the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when support- ing documents are presented, approval may be granted by au tho r ized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Admin- i s t ra t ion, e i ther freely or up to specified limits for cer- tain paymen ts such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transac t ions and ma r i t ime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) t rans fe rs of salaries and wages, (4) educa- t ional expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For pay- men ts for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the g ran t ing of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Cer ta in public enterprises, however, which receive spe- cial exchange allocations (budget devises) may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transpor ta t ion and other services contracted abroad. The t rans fer of f am i ly remittances is suspended. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Residents of other coun t r ies w o r k i ng in A lg e r ia u n d er the programs for techn ical coopera t ion or for pub l ic enterprises and agencies or ce r ta in m ixed compan ies may t rans fer abroad a ce r ta in percen tage of th e ir net salaries, as fo l low s: 55 per cent for s ing le persons and ma r r ied persons h a v i ng the ir f am i l i es in A lg e r i a; 75 per cent for persons h av ing the ir f am i l i es ab road; and 100 per cent for employees who spend t h e ir vaca t ions abroad ( the t r a n s f er be ing l im i ted to the d u r a t i on of the ir l e av e ). For other workers who have con t rac ts w i th other employers and hold the necessary emp loyment documen t s, the amoun ts that may be t r a n s f e r r ed a re 35 per cent, 55 per cent, and 100 per cen t, respec t ive ly, for the groups enume ra ted above. The paymen ts mu st be t ran s fe r red once a mon th on the basis of the r emun e r- a t ion for the previous mon th. Persons m a k i ng such t ran s fe rs of sav ings are not en t i t led to a l loca t ions for other personal t r an s f e rs (e.g., for educa t ion pu rpo s e s ). For res iden ts t rave l ing by air or sea to other coun t r ie s, i n c l u d i ng coun t r ies in the French F ranc Area, the fo r- eign exchange a l loca t ion is equ iva lent to DA 300 a person a t r ip (DA 150 for ch i ld ren und er 15) and is issued on p resen ta t ion of a va l id passport and t ravel documen ts; for over land t rave l, the a l loca t ion is DA 300 a person a ca lendar semester for adu l ts and DA 150 for ch i ld ren und er 15. These a l loca t ions are not app l icab le to persons l i v i ng in border areas. Fore ign t ravel r equ i r es the approval of the wa li of the t rave le r 's place of dom i- cile. A lge r ian workers who hold a card of the Off ice N a t ion al de la Ma in -d 'Oeuv re ( O N AM O) a re e n t i t l ed to the equ iva lent of DA 500 a person for the first t r ip abroad, and to the equ iv a l ent of DA 200 a person for each subsequent t r ip. Foreign exchange for p r iv a te bus i- ness t rave l, un less debited to an EDAC or EDAB Account (see section on Expor ts and Export Proceeds, be low ), is subject to au tho r iza t ion by the Cen t ral B ank and allocations cannot exceed DA 1,500 a t r ip. Pilgrims t rave l ing to Saudi A r ab ia may ob ta in Saudi A rab ian r iya ls up to the equ iv a l ent of DA 3,400 a per- son; the a l loca t ion can be taken up in the f o rm of a check by those t rave l ing by air or sea. Travelers may take out Algerian d inar bankno tes up to DA 50 a person. Non res ident trave lers may also re-export any f o r e i gn cu r rency declared upon e n t r y. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts to Israel, Rhodes ia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Certain expor ts, i n c l u d i ng used equ ipm ent and mach ine ry, livestock, f i rea rms, amm u n i t i o n, explo- sives, and cer ta in rad io equ ipm en t, are p roh ib i ted regard- less of des t ina t ion. All other exports m a y, in p r inc ip le, be effected f ree ly, w i thout an export license. In prac- tice, some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area th at are not included in the free export l is t, and all expor ts to coun- tries w i th which Algeria has b i la te ral paymen ts agree- ments require licenses. Some commod i t ies may be exported, subject to ind iv idu al prior app rova l, on the 34 bas is of l ink ed t ran sac t ions (transactions liees) involv- ing at the same t ime an au tho r ized impo rt t ransac t ion. W i th ce r ta in excep t ions, exports must be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized b a n k. P r ior reg is tra t ion is not r equ i r ed for expo r ts t h at are made on a firm sale basis, p rov ided t h at they do not exceed DA 5,000 in va lue and t h at they are payab le in not more than 60 days. A f ter cu s toms c lea rance, such exports mu st be registered, if they were not reg is tered ea r l ie r. If the payment period is mo re t h an 30 day s, the expor ts may be registered only a f t er a u t h o r i z a t i on is g iven by the Cen tral Bank. Sales on c o n s i g nm e nt are express ly sub ject to au tho r iza t ion by the M i n i s t ry of F inance, and reg i s t ra t ion must always t a ke place p r ior to cus toms c learance. The proceeds of exports of commod i t ies other than hyd roca rbon s, i n c l u d i ng those to the French Franc Area, must be repa t r ia ted imm e d i a t e ly a f t er co l lec t ion; the due d a te of the export con t ract mu st not be la ter than 60 days f o l l ow i ng sh ipm en t, except when pr ior au tho r iza- t i on f r om the C en t r al B ank is ob t a in ed. Those na t iona l- ized pe t ro leum compan ies ho ld ing m in e r al rights in wh ich the A lg e r i an Gov e rnm ent has acquired ma jo r i ty con t rol mu st r ep a t r i a te to A lge r ia the proceeds f rom t h e ir expo r ts of hyd roca rbons ca lcu la ted on the basis of a re fe rence price per ba r rel t h at is fixed by agreement w i th the compan ies concerned. For one pe tro leum com- p a ny h o l d i ng m i n e r al r igh t s, however, there a re d i f f e r ent r e p a t r i a t i on r e q u i r em e n t s. E x p o r t e rs in the p r iva te sector may re ta in 2 per cent (1 per cent for con s ignm ent sales) of the export pro- ceeds of a ll commod i t ies o ther th an hyd roca rbons in spec ial accoun t s, un less expor ts are made on a compen- s a t ion bas is (echanges compenses}. These accounts are of two k ind s —EDAC (Exportateurs-dinars convertibles) and EDAB (Exportateurs-dinars bilateraux). Balances in these accoun ts are not t r a n s f e r a b le and may be used by the ho lder h im s e lf for bus iness t rave l, cer ta in services of f o r e i gn t e chn i c i an s, and impo r ts of spare pa r ts; bal- ances in excess of DA 100,000 in either type of account a re in conv e r t ib l e. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om inv is ib les must be repa tr ia ted and su r r end e r ed. Sav ings repa t r ia ted in the fo rm of convert- ib le cu r r en c i es by A lg e r i ans w o r k i ng abroad are eligible for an "encou ragement p r em i um ." There are no restric- t ions on the impo rt of fo r e ign bankno te s, coins (except gold c o i n s ), checks, and le t te rs of credit, but nonresi- den ts, i n c l u d i ng those of A lg e r i an na t iona l i ty, must dec lare such ho ld ings when they en ter Algeria. Resident t rave le rs may r e impo rt A lge r ian d in ar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Non re s ident t rave le rs are not perm i t- ted to b r i ng in A lge r ian banknotes. Capital Res iden ts are obliged to r ep a t r i a te and surrender c ap i t al assets (or the sales proceeds th e r eo f) held or acqu i red ou t s ide A lge r ia. Cap i tal t r an s f e rs to any destin- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ation are subject to individual license; residents are not norma l ly permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Ordinance No. 66-284 of Septem- ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the indus t r ial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annua l ly of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Rem i t tances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under Ordinance No. 66-284. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports on behalf of authorized indus- t r ial and dental users, and licenses for imports for indus- trial use have not been issued for some time. Under the terms of Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is to be distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribu- tion et la Transformation de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange con- trol regulations, to import and export any precious metal, inc lud ing gold. Furthermore, locally produced gold must be sold to this agency. As at the end of 1975, AGENOR had not yet come in to operation and some of its func t ions continued to be performed by the Central Bank (e.g., the issuance of import licenses for dental gold). Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles con ta in ing gold are prohibited. Changes during 1975 February 6. A protocol was signed with Poland providing for a changeover f rom a clearing regime to settlements in convertible currencies. Notice No. 87 of April 3, 1975 announced that the payments agree- ment with Poland had expired, that only payments relat- ing to contracts concluded before January 1, 1975 could still be settled through the clearing account, and that the latter would be closed on April 30, 1975. March 12. Notice No. 85 revoked the provisions of the last paragraph of Notice No. 5ZF of November 13, 1963. An instruction of the M in is try of Finance would specify the transfer methods for balances in Final Depar- ALGERIA ture Accounts held by any physical person resident in Algeria but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty who planned to leave Algeria permanently to re turn to his country of origin. May 13. Notice No. 86 provided for certain changes in the procedures governing imports made "without pay- ment." The Notice was not applicable to passenger automobiles (which remained subject to Order No. 103 and Notice No. 73 of June 12, 1973) or to gifts (when governed by special trade or exchange regulations). Imports "without payment" were defined as those which involve neither payment in foreign exchange nor the payment of dinars into a resident or nonresident account of any k ind, nor the use of balances in EDAC or EDAB accounts, or compensation in merchandise or in any other fo rm. If the value of such imports did not exceed D 1,000, they were exempt from all exchange and trade control formalities, but not from any absolute import prohibitions. Imports "without payment" valued at over D 1,000 were to be either charged against the global import authorization if the importer held one, or other- wise required the prior approval (license) of the Minis- try of Commerce (whether the goods were liberalized, restricted, or under monopoly). In the latter case such imports were charged against the amounts allocated for the same items in the annual general import program. Previously, all imports "without payment" required the pr ior approval of the M in is t ry of Commerce, and they were not charged against general authorizations. Notice No. 8 of September 27, 1963, Notice No. 182F of Apr il 20, 1964, and Articles 101-103 of Notice No. 727 of November 25, 1961 were revoked. May 20. Ministry of Commerce Circular No. 2050 provided that state enterprises could place direct orders, w i th in the l im i ts of the global authorizations issued to them, for certain imports related to production or main- tenance and to the execution of investment programs (List B impo r ts ); previously, such imports had required prior approval by state trading monopolies controlling such goods. May 20. Two Orders were issued containing new lists of prohibited imports and restricted imports. (The Orders were not gazetted un t il February 20, 1976.) May 22. Notice No. 89 provided that, as an excep- tional measure, the transfer in installments would be authorized of balances held on Suspense Accounts opened in the names of nonresident physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty. An instruction by the Ministry of Finance was to set out the conditions for the imple- men ta t ion of the Notice. May 24. Instruction No. 36 of the Ministry of Finance provided that applications for the transfer of balances in Suspense Accounts in excess of D 20,000 had to be submitted to the Central Bank by August 31, 1975. Transfers of lower amounts could be authorized by the bank w i th which the account was held. Both facilities related to accounts opened before January 1, 1975. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA August 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th Czechoslovakia expired. August 1. Ordinance No. 75-56 was published, which created the Algerian Foreign Trade Institute (COMEX ). October 13. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Guinea-Bissau. It came into force imme- diately. December 19. A Code de Commerce (Ordinance No. 75-59 of September 26, 1975) was published. December 31. Ordinance No. 75-93, containing the budget law for 1976, was published. The suspension of import du ty and/or production tax applicable in 1975 to various basic food s tu f fs was extended until Decem- ber 3 1, 1976. Impor ts "without paymen t" of equipment goods and professional accessories by Algerians who have been resident abroad at least five years became subject to impo rt duties and taxes; these were payable in convertible currencies. Imports "without payment" of all types of automobiles also became subject to the ruling import duties and taxes, payable in convertible cur- rencies. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina, Hungary, Romania, and Yugoslavia expired. 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. At the end of 1975 all exchange transactions took place in a dual exchange market. The f inanc ial market covered the f.o.b. value of trade transactions (except imports and exports of gold and exports of a few other commodities) and foreign loans, and the special f inan- cial market all other transactions. On December 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates in the f inanc ial market were $a 60.80 and $a 60.97 per US$1, respectively, and those in the special financial market were $a 86.40 and $a 86.62 per US$1, respectively.1 Sales of foreign exchange to residents for travel pur- poses (other than official trave l) are subject to an exchange tax of $a 4.00 per US$1.2 Certain remittances of profits and dividends are subject to a tax ranging from 20 to 40 per cent. Exchange transactions between banks and individuals, other than transac t ions in bank- notes, are subject to a tax of 1 per cent (10 per m i l l) on sales to customers and 3 per m i ll on purchases. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between private firms and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the prevailing financial market rate, subject to freely agreed p rem iums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by private firms are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transaction. Swap operations must be submitted to the Cen tral Bank for prior approval. Foreign exchange insurance covering import payments requires a 100 per cent deposit in local currency for 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks.3 Forward exchange contracts connected with exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavo idab ly delayed, for the period of the de lay). Such contracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in the financial forward exchange market as a seller of U.S. dollars at a premium which at the end of 1975 was 40 per cent per annum for imports and 32 per cent per annum for swaps. Argentina fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These 1With effect from March 8, 1976, the above exchange markets were replaced with an official ma rke t, where the exchange ra te was $a 140.00 per US$1 ( b u y i n g ), and a f ree ma rke t, where the exchange ra te opened at $a 244 (buy ing) per US$1. 2 The exchange tax was abolished on Janua ry 19, 1976. 3 This exchange rate guarantee system for import paymen ts was abolished on March 8, 1976. authorized institutions include exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institutions may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. Transactions with other coun- tries must be settled in convertible currencies. Proceeds f rom exports to 14 countries in Western Europe and to Canada and Japan must be received either in the cur- rency of the importing country or in U.S. dollars. Import payments to these countries also may be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in U.S. dollars. All settlements with other countries with which no reciprocal credit agreement is in force must be made or received in U.S. dollars or in any of the 16 currencies referred to previously. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, pro- vided that the accounts are fed with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argen- t ina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected free ly, except in payment of exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing. However, certain import suspensions are in effect .4 In addition, all imports by the private or public sector require a sworn declaration of need (declaration jurada de necesidad) submitted by the importer to the Na t ional Import Board. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial, and must be approved by the M in is try of Commerce. The declarations of the eight foreign-owned automobile assembly plants are automatically authorized if they have received the prior approval of the Secretary of State for Industrial Devel- opment. Within 90 days after submitting their declara- tions, importers must make an advance deposit equivalent to 10 per cent of the total import value applied for; this amount is applied to the obligatory exchange rate guarantee deposit. 4 At the end of 1975, certain imports were ruled by Circular R.C. 446 (and complementing circulars) in conjunction with Decree No. 7250/72. Most goods of LAFTA origin were exempt from the import suspensions. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Imports of capital goods are normally allowed only if there is no local production, and impor ts of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are proh ib i ted. Imports of used goods have been suspended un t il December 31, 1977, but used capital goods may be imported if authorization is obtained f rom the Secretary of State for Industrial Development. M in imum f i n a n c i ng requ i remen ts have been estab- lished for capital goods valued at more t h an US$10,000. The relevant import value is calculated as the cumula- tive impor ts by the same impo r t ing firm w i th in any 12-month period. Payment aga inst de l ivery of sh ipp ing documents for transactions in excess of US$10,000 is l im i ted to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, of wh ich 5 per cent may be paid in advance at the t ime of f o rm a l i z i ng the purchase. Depending upon the cumu l a t ive import va lue, m i n im um grace periods r ang ing f rom 6 mon ths to two and one half years and m i n im um ma tu r i t ies of up to six years for transactions of up to US$500,000 are re- quired on the balance. The Central Bank must be consulted to de te rm ine acceptable financing te rms for imports valued at more than US$500,000. Capital goods imports by the public sector require prior approval by the Central Bank. For most goods not covered by the preceding provisions, m i n im um fore ign financing of 180 days is required. The Central Bank may approve financ- ing of less than 180 days. For most imports subject to the 180-day financing re- qu iremen t, a deposit equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the import must be made for the d u r a t i on of the 180-day financing period. This deposit serves to guar- antee the exchange rate, and there is a 40 per cent charge for th is exchange cover. If the i n i t i al financing is extended for an add i t ional 180 days, exchange cover may be obtained for this period w i th no add i t ional deposit or charge. The fo l low ing impor ts are exempt f rom the obligatory exchange rate gua ran tee deposit: public sector imports, capital goods impo r ts covered by the m i n im um f inanc ing requ i remen ts discussed above, goods of LAFTA or ig in, inpu ts for the produc t ion of industrial exports, and imports by the au tomob i le as- sembly indus try. In add i t ion to the exchange rate guar- antee deposit, an advance import deposit equal to 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required for certain private sector imports (see be low ). Import taxes inc lude the fo l low ing: a con su lar fee of 3 per cent payable normally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1V2 per cent or %o of 1 per cent applicable to all impo r ts; a s tamp duty of 0.6 per cent; taxes ranging f rom 4 per cent to 10 per cent on impor ts of paper products, cer ta in types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and sales taxes ranging from 5 per cent to 22 per cent. All mar i t ime imports are subject to a tax of 12 per cent on the freight, unless transported in A r g e n t i ne vessels. Authorized banks are prohibited f rom opening docu- mentary credits in respect of public sector imports (other 38 than for those originating in LAFTA countries) except w i th prior au tho r iza t ion f r om the Gove rnmen t. Fur ther- more, the Central Bank requires au tho r ized in s t i tu t ions to advise it of all requested payments covering imports for which no b a n k i ng documen ts are subm i t ted, in which case Central Bank approval is requ ired. The same requirement applies when documents submitted do not specify the date of paymen t, or if the date or ig ina l ly ind ica ted by the correspondent has been changed, and when bills or d r a f ts expire more than five days prior to the date on wh ich the t ran s fer is required. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. va lue is required on many goods f rom all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms established in the Province of Tucuman, by certain in s t i tu t ion s, or according to the intended use of the goods; in addition, goods imported f rom LAFTA coun- tries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists ( inc lud ing the special lists for Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and U r u g u a y ). The commodities that do not require an advance deposit inc lude most raw ma ter ia ls and fue ls, many capital goods, and many semi- m a n u f a c t u r ed goods for the production of non t rad i t ional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate for the commod i ty to be impor ted. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be und e r t ak en: open ing a letter of cred i t; w i thd raw ing sh ipp ing documents f rom the in te rmed ia ry banks; purchas ing forward exchange; or clearing goods th rough customs. The deposit is a u t om a t i c a l ly re funded a f t er 180 days. Payments for Invisibles W i th the exception m a i n ly of travel expenses, f am i ly remittances, and remittances of profits, dividends, royal- ties, and techn ical fees, paymen ts for inv i s ib les may be made free ly through the special financial ma rke t. How- ever, a l loca t ions of fore ign exchange for l icens ing fees, royalties, and technical services are subject to prior approval of the contracts by the Na t ional Registry of Contracts, Licenses, and T rans fer of Technology. Per- sons and firms e l ig ib le for remittances of profits, divi- dends, and roya l t ies are not granted fore ign exchange in amoun ts greater than US$1,000 for each t ransac t ion, but instead are perm i t ted to purchase negotiable five-year U.S. do l la r -denom ina ted external bonds issued by the Gove rnmen t. These may be freely exported and impo r ted. The sale of exchange for private travel abroad no rma l ly is l im i t ed to US$50 a person a day, up to US$350 a person a t r ip (ha lf of these amoun ts for c h i l d r e n ), or, for ne ighbor ing countries, US$25 a person a day, subject to a l im it of US$175 a person a t r ip. The exchange must be purchased in the special financial market and is subject to an exchange tax of $a 4.00 per US$1 (but see foo tno te 2 ). Of the travel allocation for ne ighbor ing coun tr ies, up to the equ iva lent of $a 400 may be taken out in the fo rm of bankno tes of the coun t ry of des t ina- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion; the limit on banknotes and travelers checks is $a 1,000 for travel to other countries.5 Travelers may take out any amount in domestic banknotes and coins except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of exports are prohibited or restricted. M in imum export prices (reference prices) are established for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The fu ll proceeds f rom all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the proceeds must not be less than the reference price or, if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Exporters of traditional commodities are required to receive the foreign exchange proceeds either before ship- ment or under an irrevocable documentary credit payable against shipping documents, and they must sell these proceeds within 10 work ing days af ter shipment. The proceeds from promoted exports (listed in Circular R.C. 424) must be surrendered w i th in 180 days of ship- ment, and payments may be received against d ra f ts, in addition to the forms of payment prescribed for tradi- tional exports. There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, and periodicals. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for tax rebates (reintegro and reembolso) or drawbacks. Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on reference prices. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or w i th in the follow- ing 31 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 2 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the N a t ion al Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services. The Na t ional Export Credit Insurance Commission provides credit insurance for exports of capital goods, consumer durab le goods, and certain other consumer goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered in the special financial market within 30 days of receipt. 5 Circular R.C. 609 of February 11, 1976 revised these regulations. The max imum allocation for travel to neighboring countries became US$300 a person, of which US$30 could be taken up in banknotes or travelers checks. For other countries, the limit was US$1,500 a person, of which up to US$100 could be taken up in banknotes or travelers checks. In both cases, the limits for children between the ages of 3 and 12 were half of these amounts. ARGENTINA Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital Exchange proceeds from capital inflows received by residents must be surrendered in the special financial market w i th in 30 days of receipt, with the exception that proceeds f rom foreign loans must be sold in the financial marke t. There are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers are restricted. Argentine external bonds may be exported freely. Sales of exchange in connection with investments, placements, or deposits w i th in Argentina or abroad require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Argen t ine indus tr ial or commercial firms require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a con- vertible currency. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. The former Foreign Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 19151 of July 30, 1971) provided that all new foreign investments must have government approval and must be registered. Profits and dividends could then be remitted from the end of the first year of operation. The firms concerned were permitted to receive domestic short-term credit up to 50 per cent of the ir registered capital and accumulated reserves; this limitation did not apply to export credit. Foreign companies established in Argentina prior to the promulgation of the law were required to register their capital in the investment register in order to be eligible for remittances of profits and dividends or for repatriation of capital. Implementing regulations were contained in Decree No. 2400 of April 27, 1972. A new Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 20557 of November 7, 1973, implemented by Decree No. 413/74 of February 22, 1974) provides that all new foreign investment must be made under the terms of a contract negotiated with the "Implementing Authority." The law distinguishes, according to the degree of foreign owner- ship, between national, mixed, and foreign companies. In the case of companies with 51 per cent or more foreign participation, the contract must be approved by the Congress; for companies with between 20 per cent and 51 per cent foreign capital, the contract needs approval by the President. Repatriation of capital may not take place un t il at least five years af ter the invest- ment was made, and the annual amount of repatriation must not exceed 20 per cent of the capital eligible for repatriation. No repatriation of capital is permitted if it endangers the continued existence of the firm. Each contract establishes a maximum limit of domestic short- term indebtedness, and no long-term domestic indebted- ness may norma l ly be incurred. Remittances abroad of profits and dividends are limited to 12.5 per cent or a rate exceeding by 4 percentage points the rate for time deposits of 180 days in the 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA foreign country concerned, whichever is higher, calcu- lated on the basis of the fore ign capital eligible for repa tr ia t ion. Existing fo re ign and mixed companies in Argentina may remain subject to their previous regula- tions or negotiate a contract under the new law. How- ever, if they choose the fo rmer option, their remittances of profits and dividends become subject to a special t ran s fer tax va ry ing w i th the annual amount of the rem i t tance as a percentage of fo re ign capital invested. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institutions and houses authorized to deal in fo re ign exchange, but the regula- tions permitting nonbank residents to buy gold coins and bars f rom these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold must be settled through the special financial market. Imports by indus tr ial users are subject to a statistical duty of %o of 1 per cent, and those by other users are subject in add i t ion to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by ins t i tu t ions and houses authorized to engage in exchange t ran sac t ion s; they requ i re the prior approval of the Cen t ral Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. Changes during 1975 January 1. New rules for settlements under reciprocal credit agreements came into force (Central Bank Circular R.C. 511 of December 20, 1974). January 3. Decree No. 10/75 increased the tax on the sale of exchange for foreign travel f rom $a 2.00 to $a 4.00 per US$1. January 3. The max imum exchange allocation for travel to neighboring countries was reduced f rom US$300 to US$70 a person a trip. January 22. Circular R.C. 514 redefined some regula- tions governing the control of exchange sales for foreign travel. It also s t ipu la ted that sh ipp ing l ines, a i r l ines, and their agencies could collect in local currency f rom Argentine citizens and residents traveling abroad only payments for passages and fre ight but not for other services, such as hotel accommodations. January 31. The deposit requirement for purchases of fo rwa rd exchange in respect of import paymen ts was increased f rom 40 per cent to 100 per cent. January 31. The rate of advance deposit for certain imports was raised f rom 40 per cent to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value (Central Bank Telephone Communica- tion No. 3148). This action was reversed on June 2. February 28. Executive Decree No. 534 vested in the Ministry of Economy the power to set the exchange rate at which transactions under Article 4 of Decree No. 3952/71 are settled. March 3. In accordance with the powers granted by Executive Decree No. 534, the M in is t ry of Economy depreciated the peso f rom $a 5.00 to $a 10.00 per US$1 in the commercial market and from $a 9.93-9.98 to 40 $a 15.05-15.10 in the financial market (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 286). March 3. M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 286 modified the exchange market assignment for export proceeds. F.o.b. proceeds of manu fac tu red products contained in the lists appended to Decree No. 3255/71 (as amended ), except those contained in the annex to the Resolution, could henceforth be sold in the financial ma rke t. Sixty per cent of f.o.b. proceeds f rom the sale of the 31 items listed in the annex to the Resolution ( inc lud ing f ru i t, tobacco, hides and skins, quebracho extract, and cotton fiber) could be sold in the financial market. All other export proceeds had to be liquidated at the commercial exchange rate. March 3. M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 287 adapted the system of export levies and subsidies to the new exchange market regime. For items neither listed in Decree No. 3255/71 (as amended) nor in Resolution No. 287 itself (the listing in which was identical with the one in M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 286), export tax rates were raised f rom a range of 0-59 per cent to one of 13-64 per cent. For the 31 items listed in the appendix of Resolution No. 287, export subsidies (reembolsos) of 0-40 per cent were replaced by a range of taxes and subsidies, f rom export taxes of 23 per cent to subsidies of 10 per cent. For the items contained in the lists appended to Decree No. 3255/71 (as am end ed ), export subsidies of 0-40 per cent were replaced by a range of taxes and subsidies, f rom export taxes of 20 per cent to subsidies of 15 per cent. Exports to non trad i t ional markets of products whose lists were appended to Decree No. 3255/71 (as amended) or Resolution No. 287 were taxed 5 per cent lower or subsidized 5 per cent higher. Certain specified products were given special rates of taxa t ion or subsidization. March 3. M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 288 separated imports into three lists. List A contained essential impor ts (some 3,000 items, including petroleum, coal, indus tr ial raw materials, and chemicals) that could be paid through the commercial market. Up to 40 per cent of the fo re ign exchange for imports of 201 items (mostly capital goods) in List B could also be purchased in the commercial market. For 163 items of List B the resulting m ix ing rate applied only if the goods imported were to be used in the extractive industries or in the production and distribution of elec- tricity. List C contained the rema in ing import items, which had to be paid through the financial market. Also to be settled in the financial market were (1) goods exempt f rom import suspension by v i r tue of being included in the Argen t ine na t ional list for LAFTA or in the special list for imports f rom Bolivia, Ecuador, Para- guay, and U ruguay, as well as goods included in Decree No. 4091 /72 (as extended by Decree No. 2649 /73 ); (2) imports of parts to be incorporated in exports; (3) cer ta in imports of models and prototypes; and (4) goods exempt f rom impo rt suspension by v ir tue of Decrees Nos. 2118/71 and 7250/72 (as amended ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 3. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 289 modified the regime of sworn declarations of need for imports by abolishing their automatic endorsement and by restricting needs covered by them to four months. March 3. Certain exemptions from the advance import deposit requirement were rescinded (Circular R.C. 520). These exemptions were reintroduced, however, on March 10 (Circular R.C. 522). April 14. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 446 confined all foreign exchange transactions to those financial institutions subject to Decree-Law No. 18061/69 (as amended). As a result, operations of exchange houses, exchange agencies, and exchange offices were suspended. April 14. A special exchange rate of $a 21.00 per US$1 was introduced for the sale of exchange for foreign travel; the exchange tax of $a 4.00 per US$1 continued to apply (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 445). April 15. Circular R.C. 524 tightened m in imum pay- ments conditions for imports of capital goods (as defined in its appendix). Depending on the annual value of imports per final user, the balance remaining after pay- ment of 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value was subject to a fixed m in imum schedule of grace and amortization periods. For terms on annual imports of over US$500,000 the final user had to consult the Central Bank. All public sector imports of capital goods were made subject to prior Central Bank approval. Except for forward exchange purchases, transactions under this circular were exempt from advance import deposits. April 23. All sworn declarations of need for imports were declared invalid (unless the goods had already arrived in Argentine ports, had been shipped to Argen- tina, or were covered by irrevocable letters of credit already sent abroad). The opening of any new docu- mentary credit covered by a sworn declaration required the prior approval of the Central Bank. May 2. The exchange allocation for travelers with destinations other than neighboring countries was reduced to US$30 a person a day, subject to a max imum of US$600 (previously US$900). No more than $a 500 could be taken out in banknotes and travelers checks. For children between 3 and 12 years of age, the entitle- ment was 50 per cent of the adult allowance (Circular R.C. 526). May 14. Circular R.C. 527 abolished the special payments arrangements for imports of petroleum and petroleum products from Venezuela (specified in Circu- lar R.C. 392). Payments henceforth were made under the reciprocal credit agreement with that country. May 27. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 693 established import regulations for the second half of 1975. Importers with records covering 1973 were invited to submit sworn declarations of need for up to 112 per cent of the volume imported in the second half of 1973. Prices quoted had to conform with reference prices established by the State Secretariat for Foreign Trade and International Economic Negotiations. Stocks on ARGENTINA hand on December 31, 1975 were not to exceed 10 per cent of the max imum authorized import volume for 1975; any volume exceeding that percentage was to be multiplied by five and subtracted from the import entitle- ment for 1976. An interagency Import Committee would examine the position of importers without records for 1973. May 28. The sale of forward exchange to cover import transactions was prohibited (Circular R.C. 530). May 28. Telephone Communication No. 3232 tempo- rarily suspended all sales and remittances of foreign exchange, except for purposes specified in that Com- munication. Exchange sales were still permitted for most imports, for transactions related to foreign loans, for travel expenses, and for other types of transactions expressly authorized by the Central Bank. June 5. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 10.00 to $a 26.00 per US$1 in the commercial market and from $a 15.05-15.10 to $a 30.00-30.09 in the financial market (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 8 ). The price of exchange for foreign travel (excluding the exchange tax of $a 4.00 per US$1) was increased from $a 21.00 to $a 41.00 per US$1 (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 9 ). June 5. Export proceeds (f.o.b.) and import pay- ments (f.o.b., but including interest under deferred pay- ment terms) were henceforth settled entirely in the commercial market (Circular R.C. 532). June 5. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 12 revised export duties and subsidies. For commodities in the attached List I (in general, nonpromoted exports) export duties were fixed at 10-45 per cent. Goods in List II (in general, promoted exports) were subject to duties or subsidies ranging f rom a duty of 10 per cent to a subsidy of 15 per cent. Items not included in either list (mostly certain animal by-products) were subject to a duty of 50 per cent. June 5. Imports of certain types of electrical and optical goods were suspended indefinitely. June 5. All imports already en route to Argentina or in Argentine ports had to be cleared through customs by August 30, 1975. All other imports under sworn declara- tion could only be effected if letters of credit were transmitted abroad by July 15. All pending sworn declarations submitted since March 12, 1975 would be screened by the State Secretariat for Foreign Trade and International Economic Negotiations. Declarations would be approved only for goods in Lists A and B of Circular R.C. 519 (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 11). June 9. The Central Bank increased its maximum forward premium from 16 per cent (effective since May 2, 1974) to 18 per cent per annum. June 10. Circular R.C. 535 made exchange rate insurance for imports obligatory, against a deposit of 100 per cent of the peso equivalent of the goods. The deposit was to be used for the purchase of the foreign exchange when payment fell due. Capital goods under Circular R.C. 524 and public sector imports were 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA exempt. Banks were not permitted to f inance the deposits, which also could not be used as collateral vis-a-vis th ird parties. The advance impo rt deposit requirements remained in effect, but advance deposits no longer had to be constituted before ob ta in ing exchange cover. Imp lemen t ing guidelines were issued by Circular R.C. 537 of June 17. June 13. Ministry of Economy Reso lu t ion No. 48 exempted goods in List C f rom the prohibition of M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 11 when or ig ina t- ing in LAFTA countries. June 18. The Government signed an ag reement with the eight fore ign-owned au tomob i le assembly p lan ts whereby these undertook to postpone all payments abroad for two years (estimated at about US$500 million) and obtained the fo l low ing: ( 1) freedom of domestic pricing policy; (2) exemp t ion f rom advance deposit and exchange insurance requ iremen ts for the ir impo r ts; and (3) an assurance of au toma t ic au tho r iza t ion of the ir sworn declarations of need by the State Secretariat for Foreign Trade and In t e rn a t ion al Economic Negotiations, provided that these related to impor ts approved by the State Secretariat for Indus t r ial Development. Payments outside the LAFTA c lea r ing a r rangemen ts for sh ipmen ts made before June 30, 1975 were to be deferred by one year, while those for sh ipmen ts made between July 1, 1975 and June 30, 1977 would be deferred by two years. As regards impo r ts shipped before June 30, 1975, the impo r t ing p l a nt had the op t ion of ( 1) receiving up to 180 days a f t er sh ipmen t, aga inst a deposit in pesos, at the exchange ra te p reva i l ing at the t ime of deposit, a one-year p rom isso ry no te in foreign currency from a duly authorized o f f ic ial bank, or (2) purchas ing 180 days a f ter sh ipment fo rwa rd exchange for delivery 360 days a f ter sh ipmen t. For sh ipmen ts effected between July 1, 1975 and June 30, 1977, impor ters would obtain two-year promissory notes under the same circumstances as under the first op t ion above. Provisionally, 50 per cent of the assembly plants' exchange surrenders f rom sales outside the LAFTA clearing arrangemen ts were ea rma rked for the even tual discharge of these import payments. The assembly plants also agreed ( 1) to accept external bonds w i th seven years' ma tu r i ty for roya l ty and tech- nical assistance payments, (2) to r e f r a in f rom any prof it remittances un t il June 30, 1977, and ( 3) not to reduce their foreign swap liabilities un t il the end of 1975. June 19. Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 3255 par t ia l ly reopened the exchange market for transac t ions in current invisibles that had been suspended by Telephone Com- munication No. 3232 of May 28. The reopen ing affected ma in ly transactions relating to commercial operations. June 28. Persons traveling abroad were requ i red to pay the difference in pesos between the exchange rate in effect at the time tickets were purchased and the rate ru l ing five days before trips were started (Circular R.C. 539 of June 19). 42 June 30. Circular R.C. 540 clarified that the pro- visions of Circular R.C. 524 on m i n im um terms for impo r ts of capital goods did not app ly to pa r ts intended as inputs for the production of capital goods. July 3. The export proceeds ( f . o . b .) f rom 31 items in the list of M in i s t ry of Economy Resolutions Nos. 286 and 287 of March 3 could hence fo r th be surrendered at the exchange rate p reva i l ing at the t ime the shipping permit was approved (C i rcu lar R.C. 541 ). July 8. Impor ters were requ ired to subm it in Novem- ber and May s ix-mon th impo rt programs, in the form of sworn dec la ra t ions of need, for the semesters begin- n ing J a n u a ry and Ju ly, respectively (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 8 8 ). On ly for capital goods and related spare pa r ts could impo rt programs be subm i t ted at any t ime. With the exception of pub l ic sector impor ts, and of pr iva te impor ts covered e i ther by p romo t ional regimes or special sectoral agreements w i th in LAFTA (global p r o g r am s ), such impo rt programs had to be detailed by NADI sub i tems or by ind iv idu al product and presented to an au tho r ized exchange dealer; the la t ter was to ver ify t h at the proposed program was reasonab le and complied w i th the exchange in su r an ce provisions. The program then was registered w i th the Na t ional Impo rt Board. Global p rog rams could be presented d irect to the Na t ional Impo rt Board for approval. A program was to be considered reasonable if the impo r ter was financially respons ib le and if the in tended impo r ts were genuine and con fo rm ed w i th ex i s t ing impo rt regu la t ions. Exchange ra te in su r an ce had to cover at least 10 per cent of any impo rt program. At the ir op t ion, f inal users cou ld, by depo s i t ing the peso e q u i v a l e n t, gua ran tee the exchange ra te on 100 per cent of impo r t s, but not more t h an one t h i rd of the to tal v a lue could be covered on goods for resale. Fu ll exchange ra te in su rance was ava i lab le on a vo lun ta ry basis for (1) books, newspapers, and per iod ica ls; (2) capital goods sub ject to the m i n im um p a ym e nt t e rms of C i rcu lar R.C. 524; and (3) goods impo r ted u n d er sectoral agreements between the Govern- m ent and ind iv idu al indus t r ies. Pub l ic enterprises and p r iva te impo r te rs of specified cap i tal goods were free to cover 100 per cent of the ir impo r ts but were obliged to cover 20 per cent of the ir impo r ts in the period July 1- December 31, 1975. The m i n im um cover ratio was to be raised to 40 per cent and 60 per cent in the first and second h a lf of 1976, respectively; the rea f ter fu ll cover would become compulsory. The Cen tral Bank was empowered to charge a penalty whe re less th an 80 per cent of the impo rt va lue approved in a program was sh ipped d u r i ng the semester. On the other h a n d, au tho r ized exchange dealers and the customs au tho r i t ies could pe rm it excess impo r ts of up to 10 per cen t. For the r em a ind er of 1975, impo rt programs could be subm i t ted at any t ime. July 15. The M i n i s t ry of Economy announced it wou ld g rant separate exchange rate t rea tment to packag- ing and product proper, for ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral and live- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution stock exports where packaging constituted a substantial proportion of the export value. At his option, the exporter would be able to sell an established proportion of his f.o.b. proceeds at the financial rate, free of export taxes, while the remainder was to receive the exchange rate and fiscal treatment corresponding to the com- modity's NADI classification (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 131). July 16. The peso was depreciated from $a 26.00 to $a 28.08 per US$1 in the commercial market and from $a 30.00-30.09 to $a 35.40-35.50 per US$1 in the financial market (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 132). July 16. The sales price for travel exchange was raised from $a 41.00 to $a 50.00 per US$1. The maxi- mum exchange allocation for travel to noncontiguous countries was reduced to US$210 a person (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 133). July 16. Circular R.C. 544 revised the exchange market classification v All export proceeds from goods included in List I and f rom goods not included in List II of Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 129 were to be surrendered in the commercial market at the rate ruling on the date the shipping documents were approved. Proceeds from exports included in List II were to be sold in the financial market at the rate prevailing at the time of payment, if this occurred on schedule; for late pay- ment, the exchange rate on the maturity date would apply. On the import side, goods included in List A of Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 288 could be imported through the commercial marke t, while those in Lists B and C had to pass through the financial mar- ket. The same exchange market assignment applied to interest paid on imports w i th deferred payment terms (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 130). July 16. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 129 established new export taxes and subsidies (reembolsos). Lists I and II were modified slightly. List I covered agricultural products and most minerals, while List II covered manufactures. Items in List I were subject to duties or subsidies ranging from a du ty of 45 per cent to a subsidy of 30 per cent. Exports in List II received subsidies ranging from 0-30 per cent. Export items not appearing in either list were subject to an export tax of 50 per cent. Promoted exports to nontraditional mar- kets continued to receive either a tax rebate of 5 per cent or an additional subsidy of 5 per cent. July 21. The Central Bank increased its max imum forward premium f rom 18 per cent to 21 per cent per annum. August 4. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 22 suspended until December 31 the importation of almost 1,300 tariff items. Exceptions included imports from the LAFTA area of goods on the Argentine National List or the list of special concessions to Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay, as well as items designated by the State Secretariat for Foreign Trade and International ARGENTINA Economic Negotiations as being essential but impossible to produce domestically. Imports of used goods were suspended un t il December 31, 1977, unless expressly authorized or of a noncommercial character. August 4. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 23 stipulated that sworn declarations of need would only be processed for the following: (1) goods covered by sectoral agreements; (2) goods to be incorporated in fixed investment projects, or spare parts for final users; (3) imports not exceeding US$10,000 for each importer; (4) goods of LAFTA origin included in the Argentine National List or the list of special concessions to Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay. August 11. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 28.08 to $a 33.50 per US$1 in the commercial market and from $a 35.40-35.50 to $a 42.50-42.64 per US$1 in the financial market (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 30). For travel abroad, the peso was depreciated from $a 50.00 to $a 60.00 per US$1 (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 31). August 13. The State Secretariat for Foreign Trade and International Economic Negotiations could, in duly documented critical situations arising from the lack of imported inputs, authorize exceptions to the ban on processing sworn declarations covering transactions other than those explicitly mentioned in Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 23 (SECENE Resolution No. 128). August 26. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 33.50 to $a 34.45 per US$1 in the commercial market, and f rom $a 42.50-42.64 to $a 44.20-44.34 per US$1 in the financial market. A special financial market with buying and selling rates of $a 63.00-63.18 per US$1 was created (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 17). Financial loans and interest payments thereon remained in the financial market but receipts and payments in respect of freight, insurance, tourism, and other services, as well as all other capital flows were channeled through the special financial market (Resolution No. 17 and Circular R.C. 553). August 27. The Central Bank exempted imports of inputs for industrial exports from obligatory exchange rate insurance (Circular R.C. 554). September 2. Commercial and industrial firms which increased the foreign currency value of their swap engagements with a ma tur i ty of more than 180 days between August 25 and November 30 were offered additional 180-day general-purpose loan facilities at normal bank lending conditions for up to 50 per cent of the peso value of the foreign loan proceeds (calcu- lated at the financial market ra te ). For this purpose the Central Bank opened an unlimited rediscount line to the banks concerned and freed them from the obligation of enforcing the usual bank debt/net worth limits appli- cable to their customers. Applications for the new financing were to be submitted by December 15 and the special rediscount facility offered by the Central Bank 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA was to close on December 30. Excluded from the cal- culation of increases in swap engagements were old foreign loans without exchange cover that were con- verted to covered loans after August 25, 1975. Borrow- ers availing themselves of the special credit facility were also expected not to reduce their foreign swap liabilities as long as special loans to them were outstanding (Cir- cular R.C. 555). September 12. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 109 added imports of the public sector to the import categories for which sworn declarations of need would be considered (see M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 23). They were, however, made subject to prior screening. September 15. The peso was depreciated from $a 34.45 to $a 35.65 per US$1 in the commercial mar- ket, from $a 44.20-44.34 to $a 45.75-45.90 per US$1 in the financial market, and from $a 63.00-63.18 to $a 65.20-65.39 per US$1 in the special financial market (M in is t ry of Economy Resolution No. 62 of Septem- ber 12, 1975). The allocation of transactions among the three markets remained unchanged. Exports and imports continued to be governed by Circular R.C. 544 (Circu- lar R.C. 556). September 17. The deadline for the initiation of sec- toral agreements was extended to September 26. A statement of the max imum foreign exchange require- ments for import shipments through December 31, and of the ma tur i ty terms of their f inanc ing, had to be pre- sented by October 10 (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 133). September 26. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 35.65 to $a 36.40 per US$1 in the commercial marke t, f rom $a 45.75-45.90 to $a 46.70 (buying) per US$1 in the financial market, and from $a 65.20-65.39 to $a 66.50 (buying) in the special financial market. The allocation of the various transactions to the three marke ts remained unchanged. October 2. A new export category, List III, was intro- duced and assigned to the special f inanc ial marke t; the list covered mainly footwear and vehicles (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 155). New special categories were also established for certain meat products and certain types of wool that formerly were included in List I (Resolutions Nos. 156 and 157). Most export taxes were lowered and some subsidies increased. The revised export taxes ranged from 0-50 per cent and the export subsidies from 0-40 per cent. October 6. For exports eligible for subsidies, the sub- sidy percentage was extended to cover, in addition to the f.o.b. value, the cost of freight and insurance if con- tracted with Argentine firms. October 13. The peso was depreciated from $a 36.40 to $a 37.70 per US$1 (buying and selling) in the com- mercial market, from $a 46.70 to $a 48.30 (buy ing) per US$1 in the financial market, and f rom $a 66.50 to $a 68.80 (buy ing) per US$1 in the special financial market. 44 October 20. The Central Bank announced that it would, upon request, issue external bonds at 120 per cent of their face value to cover the transfer of dividends, royalties, and technical assistance payments accrued through June 30, as well as approved capital repatria- tion (Circular R.C. 562 and Decree No. 2549/75). October 27. A new import List A /1, comprising goods previously included in List A, was created; 75 per cent of the f.o.b. value of List A /1 imports was to be settled at the commercial rate and 25 per cent at the financial rate. The remaining imports in List A con- tinued to be settled at the commercial rate (M in i s t ry of Economy Resolution No. 256). October 30. The maximum premium for forward exchange was increased f rom 21 per cent to 24 per cent per annum, and that for exchange insurance to 27 per cent per annum. October 31. Firms wishing to make remittances of less than US$1,000 for dividends, royalties, and techni- cal assistance payments, as well as for capital repatria- t ion, were allowed to do so at the special financial market rate, since external bonds were only issued in denominations of US$1,000 or more (Central Bank Telephone Communication No. 3394). November 3. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 276 outlined import procedures for the first half of 1976. Public and private sector importers were required to present their sworn declarations of import need to the Na t ional Import Board by November 21. Private sector importers first had to have their declarations verified by the ir industrial sector organization. An Import Com- mittee was empowered to oversee import approvals and to set policy with regard to imports. Within 90 days a f t er subm i t t ing their declaration, importers were re- quired to make an advance deposit equivalent to 10 per cent of the import value applied for. Annual programs were not required for inputs for the production of exports, and imports of approved capital goods could be processed before the general program was approved. November 4. Where import credits were extended for an additional 180 days, an exchange rate guarantee to cover the extension could be obtained without peso deposit or cover charge (Telephone Communication No. 3398). November 5. The peso was depreciated from $a 37.70 to $a 39.40 per US$1 (buy ing and selling) in the com- mercial market, from $a 48.30 to $a 50.50 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market, and f rom $a 68.80 to $a 71.90 (buy ing) per US$1 in the special financial market. November 6. Payments for imports in List A /1 were settled 55 per cent in the commercial market and 45 per cent in the financial market. The remaining goods in List A were settled 75 per cent in the commercial mar- ket and 25 per cent in the financial market (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 333). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 7. The premium for exchange insurance was increased from 27 per cent to 33 per cent per annum. November 10. All List I (traditional) exports and all unlisted exports were shifted from the commercial market to the financial market. Most export taxes were raised, although the range of 0-50 per cent was main- tained; some export subsidies were lowered, the maxi- mum remaining at 40 per cent (M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 335). November 17. All List A imports, including goods in List A /1, were shifted to the financial market; previ- ously, payments for these essential imports were made at mixed rates. This action effectively abolished the commercial market. November 21. The peso was depreciated from $a 50.50 to $a 52.80 per US$1 (buy ing) in the financial market and from $a 71.90 to $a 75.10 per US$1 (buy- ing) in the special financial market. November 24. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 402 permitted exchange houses, exchange agencies, and exchange offices to resume foreign exchange opera- tions, which had been suspended since April 14. November 25. Decree No. 3532 gave the Ministry of Economy the responsibility for supervising, coordi- nating, and approving all public sector debt repayable in foreign currency. Public sector entities were required to provide the Central Bank with all in fo rma t ion on these operations requested, and the latter would for- mulate a "tentative program of public sector external indebtedness" for approval by the Minister of Economy. Both the contracting and servicing of foreign debt would be limited to operations covered by the approved program. December 1. The deadline for arranging swaps in order to obtain the additional credit provided for by Circular B. 1265-R.C. 555 was extended to Decem- ber 30. December 1. The charge for the exchange rate guar- antee for import payments was increased f rom 33 per cent to 40 per cent, and the premium charged for swaps from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. December 3. The peso was depreciated f rom $a 52.80 to $a 55.35 per US$1 (buying) in the f inanc ial market and f rom $a 75.10 to $a 78.70 per US$1 (buy ing) in the special financial market. December 4. Authorized exchange dealers were allowed to resume foreign exchange sales for certain categories of transactions that had been suspended since May 28. These included registration fees for patents and trademarks, authors' and musicians' royalties, pri- vate subscriptions to papers and magazines, fam i ly remittances, advertising for Argentine exports, registra- tion fees for international congresses and meetings, dip- lomatic remittances, and remittances of public welfare institutions (Telephone Communication No. 3425). ARGENTINA December 4. Central Bank Resolution No. 869 em- powered exchange houses to act as intermediaries in transactions in external bonds. December 9. The maximum foreign exchange allow- ance for travel abroad was changed to US$25 a person a day, up to US$175 a trip, for travel to neighboring countries, and to US$50 a person a day, up to US$350 a trip, for other destinations. Children between 3 and 12 years of age were entitled to one half of the adult allowance. December 15. The peso was depreciated from $a 55.35 to $a 58.00 per US$1 (buying) in the financial market and from $a 78.70 to $a 82.45 per US$1 (buy- ing) in the special financial market. December 15. Exports were reclassified into a new List I (comprising the former Lists I and II) and a new List II (which included the former List III). Proceeds from exports in List I were to be sold in the financial exchange market and those from items in List II in the special financial exchange market. Items in List I were subject to revised export duties and subsidies ranging f rom a duty of 40 per cent to a subsidy of 40 per cent. Goods in List II were subject to neither duties nor sub- sidies. Products not included in either list were subject to an export duty of 40 per cent. December 26. Capital goods for which an authoriza- tion had been obtained from the Secretary of State for Industrial Development were exempted from the sus- pension of imports of used goods. Authorization would be granted only if the goods were not substitutes for locally produced goods, were imported for direct use by the importer, and would not be resold within five years (Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 539). December 29. The peso was depreciated from $a 58.00 to $a 60.80 per US$1 (buying) in the finan- cial market and from $a 82.45 to $a 86.40 per US$1 (buying) in the special financial market. December 30. The 180-day credit facilities available to firms contracting new swap arrangements with a ma tur i ty of at least 180 days were reduced from 50 to 40 per cent of the peso value of each swap; the dead- line was extended to January 30, 1976 (Central Bank Resolution No. 946). (Subsequently, the deadline was again extended to March 31, 1976, but the application of this system was suspended on March 5, 1976 by Circular B. 1334-R.C. 624.) December 30. In view of the termination on Decem- ber 31 of the sectoral agreements, under which certain imports were to be contracted with financing for more than 180 days, the required financing for such imports was reduced to 180 days (Telephone Communication No. 3445). December 30. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 553 extended until February 26, 1976 the final shipment date of imports for which the sworn declara- tion of import need had been approved under the system established in Ministry of Economy Resolution 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA No. 88, provided that the letter of credit had been opened and transmitted before December 30. December 30. With effect from January 2, 1976, sales of foreign exchange to foreign transportation firms were permitted in respect of passages sold locally against pay- ment in pesos, these receipts becoming transferable with effect from January 1, 1976. December 31. Importers of ores and concentrates of lead and zinc became eligible for an exchange rate guarantee for 180 days. A 100 per cent deposit would only be required during the last 90 days of this period, and the charge was 36 per cent per annum. December 31. The 180-day extension of the period allowed to foreign investors to register under the Foreign Investment Law expired. December 31. The temporary ban on imports of almost 1,300 tariff items, imposed on August 4, was allowed to expire. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on January 1, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.09578 grams of fine gold per Aus t ra l ian Dollar.1 However, on September 25, 1974, the former fixed l ink w i th the U.S. dollar at the par i ty re la t ionsh ip was d iscon t inued; the exchange rate for the Aus t ra l ian dollar is de term ined by changes in an average of foreign currency values weighted in accordance w i th the ir t r ad ing significance to Aus tra l ia. The Reserve Bank of Australia determines the exchange rate daily to ensure that the weighted average exchange va lue rema ins cons tan t. The rate is expressed in terms of the U.S. do l lar. On December 31, 1975, the Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was $A 1 = US$1 .2571, and the o f f ic ial l im i ts at or w i th in which banks were to effect spot t ransac t ions w i th the public in U.S. dollars were US$1.2596 and US$1.2546 per $A 1. Banks are f ree to de term ine the ir own spot rates for all other currencies, inc lud ing sterling; quo ta t ions are based on rates in overseas markets. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks by residents for periods appropr ia te to the na tu re of the transac t ion in respect of most exchange risks ar is ing out of trade transac t ions. For- ward exchange cover for t ransac t ions in certain inv is- ibles of a noncap i tal na tu re may also be arranged. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the t rad ing banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Banks act as princi- pals in all fore ign currency transactions, both spot and fo rwa rd, and are free to de term ine their own forward rates for all currencies; they are required to restrict the ir uncovered positions and may not carry excessive bal- ances abroad. Australia fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Govern- ment w i th the advice of the Depar tment of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank adm in is te rs the exchange control on behalf of the Aus tra l ian Trea- surer and delegates considerable d iscre t ionary powers to the t r a d i ng banks authorized to hand le fore ign exchange transac t ions. Import and export controls are adm in is- tered by the Department of Business and Consumer A f f a i r s. Other depar tmen ts are responsible for some policy aspects of controls on imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Aus tra l ian dollars, pay- men ts may be made in Aus tra l ian currency through the 1 The Australian dollar also circulates in a number of other countries, inc lud ing Gilbert Island, N a u r u, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands, and Tuvalu. account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency;2 if imports are invoiced in fore ign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds f rom exports may be received in Aus t ra l ian currency f rom an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Australia, or in any foreign cur- rency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the coun try of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents, provided that for amounts of $A 50,000 or more any necessary Reserve Bank approval has been issued for the underlying transac t ion. Under current policy, the balance on an account held by any nonresident may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonres iden ts are not generally permitted to borrow in Aus t ra l ia. Imports and Import Payments W i th the exceptions mentioned below, goods may be impor ted freely w i thout import licenses, and no restric- tions are imposed on payments for imports. The latter no rma l ly must be made not later than six months af ter the a r r ival of the goods in Australia; consent to longer de fe rment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Import licenses are required for the following, irrespective of o r ig in: used, secondhand, or disposals machinery or equ ipment and parts therefor (earthmoving or excavat- ing vehicles, machinery, or equ ipmen t; tractors, road rollers, or ma te r ia l -hand l ing equ ipm en t ); disposals, used, or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding pub- lic service type passenger vehicles), completely assem- bled passenger automobiles, light commercial motor vehicles, sunglasses, ophthalmic frames and sunglass f rames, and ce r ta in sheets and plates of iron and steel. In add i t ion, import licenses are required for certain types of footwear and certain types of clothing from the Republic of Ch ina, the People's Republic of China, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand.3 Ships are treated as prohibited imports, and new or secondhand ships may only be imported with the written consent of the Minis- ter of Transport. The treatment accorded to ships also applies to a i rc ra f t, with the variation that the written 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Aus t ra l ian dollar. 3 With effect from February 17, 1976, a system of global tariff quotas came into effect for kn i t ted tops. On other items of apparel selective import controls continued in respect of the Republic of China and the People's Republic of China. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA consent of the Secretary of the Department of Transport is required. In addition, import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, mainly for reasons of health, morals, or security, or to maintain quality stan- dards. In accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, bu t, with the exception of remittances to Rhode- sia which are contrary to the UN sanctions, they are not restricted. The control operates pr imar i ly to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; in addition, remittances to the New Hebrides are subject to a screening proce- dure to ensure that no tax m in im iza t ion transactions are involved. Applications for outward transfers in connec- tion with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; no forms have to be filled out for amounts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no limit on travel fund s. Banks may approve up to $A 4,000 for each person in any 12 months for any k ind of travel in any country; additional amoun ts may be obtained on application, provided that the exchange con- trol authorities are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unau- thorized capital transfer. Similarly, no limits are placed on remittances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control au thor i t ies; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six months af ter the date when pay- ment is contractually due; consent to longer de fe rment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance w i th foreign insurers. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic bank- notes w i th in six months of entry, provided that they brought the notes in to Australia. Other travelers may take out, w i thout special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Australian coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations,4 to ensure 4 With effect from February 1, 1976, the export licensing require- men ts applicable to all other countries were extended to American Samoa, Cook Islands, Fiji, Gilbert Island, N au ru, New Hebrides, Papua New Gu inea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Western Samoa. Thus, only Australia's external territories rema ined exempt f rom export licensing requirements. 48 that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve Bank; the approved period is w i th in six months prior to or after the date of exportation, but where the value of the goods exceeds $A 10,000 the approved period for receipt prior to the date of exportation is one month, longer periods being allowed only where the prepayment is in accor- dance w i th normal commercial practice. To assist super- v is ion, there is a fu r ther condition (in the case of export licenses covering goods exported by ship) that all ship- p ing documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or to a t rad ing bank acting as its agent. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regu la t ions the export of speci- fied goods may be prohibited absolutely or may be permitted subject to prescribed conditions. The con- trols are available for a variety of purposes. Exports of minerals in raw or semiprocessed form are subject to controls to ensure that export prices bear a reasonable re la t ionsh ip to market prices. Controls have also been utilized to ensure adequate supplies to meet domestic requ iremen ts (e.g., agricultural products, pr imar i ly stock foods and fer t i l izers, and some minerals and me ta ls ), to enable Australia to comply with obligations under in te rna t ional agreements, and to assist in the orderly ma rke t ing of p r ima ry products. Provision also exists for government control over the export of defense mate- r ia l. Controls exist over exports of Australian-registered ships to ensure that at all times adequate shipping is available for the purpose of trade and commerce among the states and territories of Australia. In accordance w i th UN Resolution No. 253 of 1968, Australia enforces trade sanctions against Rhodesia. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles in foreign currencies do not have to be surrendered, but may be disposed of only w i th permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct invest- men ts. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct inves tment involving the export of a significant measure of Australian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Aus tra l ian investments abroad. Approval is norma l ly granted for the repatriation of capital by nonres iden ts, but no advance commitments are given. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- dents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ties, but they are not normally permitted to trade among themselves in foreign securities except those issued off an Australian register. The export of securities and cer- tain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Applications by resident individuals to invest abroad in amounts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-month period normally are readily approved; institutional investors and public companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 million in any 12-month period. Applications for investments in larger amounts may be approved in special circum- stances. Eligible investments include portfolio invest- ments abroad in stocks and shares and investments in real estate; they do not include investments in loans or other fixed-interest securities. When exchange control approval is being sought, investment in and other transactions of a capital na tu re with countries desig- nated as tax havens5 require the production of a certificate from the Commissioner of Taxation to the effect that tax evasion or avoidance is not involved. Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency f rom any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident; the coverage of the controls over overseas borrowings includes not only fo rmal contracts to borrow but also indirect fo rms of borrowings and transactions hav ing a similar effect on capital inflow. In addition, residents are required to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter in to contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or contingent rights to payments, any other valuable consideration, or services are created in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or transfer securi- ties to, or register securities in the name of, any nonresi- dent. Controls have been established over borrowings (other than for trade transactions on normal trade credit te rms) from overseas lenders of foreign or Aus tra l ian currency in amounts exceeding $A 100,000 a borrower in any 12-month period. There is an embargo on such borrowings which are repayable, or carry options to repay, in less than 6 months. Under the terms of the variable deposit requ irement scheme (at present sus- pended), persons receiving approval for foreign borrow- ings for periods in excess of the embargo period are required to lodge a proportion of the amount drawn with the Reserve Bank, through their own banks, as a nonassignable, noninterest-bearing deposit in local cur- rency. Deposits are held for the period of the borrowing and are refunded pro rata as loans are repaid. 5 These are listed as Bahamas, Be rmuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, N a u r u, Neth- erlands Antilles, New Hebrides, Panama, Solomon Islands, Switzerland, and Tonga. AUSTRALIA The borrowing restrictions, including the suspended deposit requirement, also are applicable to the accept- ance of deposits from overseas residents by a wide range of financial intermediaries. The borrowing embargo also applies to subscriptions by nonresidents to new issues of fixed-interest securities having a maturity of 6 months or less, and to purchases by nonresidents of existing securities having 6 months or less to run to maturity. The variable deposit requirement scheme (at present suspended) also applies to subscriptions to new issues of fixed-interest securities ma tur ing in a period in excess of the embargo period.6 Australian banks are required to sight specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $A 50,000 or more. Increases in indebtedness through intercompany accounts which could have the effect of circumventing the borrowing controls are prohibited. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval. The Government's general policy on such inves tment is flexible and there are, for example, no general manda to ry levels of Australian equity in new ventures. However, the Government has a firm policy objective of securing the max imum practicable levels of ownership and control of Australian resources and industries and ensur ing that foreign capital inflows are associated w i th productive investment which adds to Australia's real resources. The policy is being applied in a pragmatic way w i th all cases being considered on their merits. Under revised policy gu ide l ines announced on Sep- tember 24, 1975, new foreign investment proposals are screened by the Foreign Investment Advisory Commit- tee, irrespective of whether they involve exchange controls. Foreign investment not involving a take-over is subject to the screening process if it is for the purpose of the foreign interests establishing a new business or unde r tak ing a new m in ing project, or significantly expand ing an existing business or project.7 Foreign interests are defined as corporations in which a single fore ign shareholder, or associated foreign shareholders, own 15 per cent or more of the equity, or in which the total foreign equity exceeds 40 per cent. The long- s t and ing controls over inward investment in the fields of bank ing, civil av ia t ion, and radio and television are be ing con t inued. Also, the Government has given par- ticular a t ten t ion to fore ign inves tment in the areas of m in ing, real estate, and nonbank finance. 6 The restrictions on nonresident deposits and nonresident investment in fixed-interest securities do not apply to a nonresident whose invest- m ent aggregates less than $A 10,000 in any 12-month period. 7 Following a change of government in late 1975, certain changes in the policy on foreign investment in Australia were announced on April 1, 1976. These included the establishment of a Foreign Invest- ment Review Board (including members f rom the business commun i ty) in place of the in te rdepa r tmen tal Foreign Investment Advisory Com- m i t tee; discontinuation of the screening of expansion proposals by existing foreign businesses; and a somewhat less restrictive policy in respect of minerals and real estate. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Under the Foreign Takeovers Act, 1975 the Govern- ment is empowered to examine all take-overs of Aus- tralian businesses by foreigners and, through the Treas- urer, to prohibit such take-overs found to be contrary to the national interest. The Government has indicated that the criterion of national interest is flexible in interpreta- tion and application in individual cases. The following areas are covered: take-overs made by acquiring voting shares; take-over methods such as the acquisition of shares other than voting shares; the sp l i t t ing of large shareholdings into small nominee groups; leases or licenses over a business; agreements relating to branch representation rights; take-overs by acquisition of assets and mineral rights; and take-overs by transferr ing con- trol of a business by one foreign group to another. The Government does not intervene, except in special cir- cumstances, where a take-over involves assets of $A 1 million or less. There are no special restrictions on domestic bank credit to overseas-owned or overseas-controlled compa- nies in Australia. Gold8 Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank all gold coming into their possession in Australia with the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold law fu l ly acquired for use in a profession or trade. Newly mined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made available at its official buy- ing price of $A 32.25 a fine ounce to an association of gold producers for sale at free market prices to local industrial users or overseas purchasers. Un t il June 30, 1975, domestic gold producers were, subject to certain conditions, eligible for subsidy under the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act; however, this Act lapsed on July 1, 1975. Imports of gold are not restricted but imported gold becomes subject to delivery to the Reserve Bank. Exports of gold require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewelry is not subject to acquisition by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unre- stricted. Exports of gold jewelry exceeding $A 250 in value require an export license. Travelers require an export license if tak ing out of Australia certain specified personal and household effects, including gold jewelry, in excess of a total value of $A 10,000 or when the gold content value of any one article exceeds $A 1,000. Changes during 1975 January 1. An export restraint agreement for one year on knitted tops and knitted dresses was negotiated with Korea. (Previous export restraint agreements for 8 With effect from January 30, 1976 all restrictions of the Australian Commonwealth Government on the owning, buying, or selling in Australia of gold and gold coins by residents were l if ted. Furthermore, residents could henceforth export and import gold subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Existing legislation in some Australian States to regulate certain gold dealings was not affected. 50 textiles were negotiated in 1974 with the People's Repub- lic of China, Hong Kong, and Ind ia .) January 1. Temporary global tar iff quotas were applied to imports of men's shirts, woven pajamas, and other woven nightwear. January 1. Mozambique became eligible for tariff preferences under Australia's Generalized System of Preferences. January 14. The restrictions on capital inflows were eased further. The m in imum period for which deposits by nonresidents could be made with Aus t ra l ian financial ins t i tu t ions was reduced from two years to six months. Nonresidents henceforth could subscribe to new issues of fixed-interest securities hav ing a ma tur i ty of six months or more and could purchase existing securities hav ing six months or more to run to ma tu r i ty; previously the m in imum maturity in either case was greater than two years. The restrictions on nonresident deposits and nonresident investment in fixed-interest securities no longer applied to a nonresident whose investment aggre- gated less than $A 10,000 in any 12-month period. February 1. Temporary global quota restrictions were applied to imports of completely assembled passenger automobiles and light commercial motor vehicles for a period of one year. Imports of passenger vehicles in February, March, and April would be limited to 5,500 un i ts a mon th; thereaf ter, quotas would be issued which would permit imports up to a m ax imum of 7,500 a month for the remainder of the 12-month period. The s i tua t ion would, however, be reviewed a f ter the first 6 mon ths. Imports of light commercial vehicles in 1975 would be permitted up to the 1974 level. It was subse- quen t ly announced that policy was to allow imports of completely assembled passenger automobiles, by mon th ly quotas, at an annual rate of about 20 per cent of the market. February 1. The Export Payments Insurance Corpora- tion was reconstituted as the Export Finance and Insur- ance Corporation to operate as an export financing insti- tu t ion as well as a credit and investment insurer and guarantor. February 13. The amount of Aus tra l ian currency that travelers could take out of Aus t ra l ia was increased f rom $A 100 (of which $A 4 could be in co ins) to $A 250 in Aus t ra l ian currency notes, plus $A 5 in coins. March 1. Temporary global ta r i ff quotas were applied to imports of refrigerators, wash ing machines, and clothes dryers. March 1. Temporary global quota restrictions were applied to imports of sunglasses, ophthalmic frames, and sunglass frames. March 1. Temporary global ta r i ff quotas were applied to imports of men's and boy's suits and coats, certain women's outer garments, swimwear, and babies' diapers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 1. Temporary global tariff quotas were applied to imports of precision-ground steel ball bearings for the 12 months beginning March 1, 1975. Imports at normal rates of duty were limited to two million units, while imports above that level attracted an additional tem- porary duty of 20 per cent. March 10. Temporary global quota restrictions were applied to imports of hot-rolled sheets and plates of iron or steel. They were intended to limit such imports on and from January 1, 1975 to an annual level equivalent to 50 per cent of average annual imports of these items cleared for home consumption in 1972 and 1973. March 14. It was announced that foreign-owned companies were not required to seek Australian partici- pation at the initial level of oil exploration, up to the detailed proving stage. However, foreign companies were expected to offer every reasonable opportunity for Australian participation, both public and private, beyond this stage. March 14. It was announced that exports of u ran ium would be made solely by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. (On January 1, 1976 this policy was under review.) April 1. Australia's interim agreement with New Zealand guaranteeing the tariff preference margins in each other's markets was extended for a fur ther 12 months. Motor vehicles and components continued to be excluded from the provisions of the agreement. May 1. Export restraint arrangements effective until June 30, 1976 were negotiated with Hong Kong and Macao concerning a range of kn i t ted and woven apparel. The arrangement w i th Hong Kong was a renewal and extension of a previous one. May 13. Temporary global tariff quotas were applied to imports of certain types of carpet should imports exceed certain "trigger" levels. (On January 1, 1976 the "trigger" levels had not been activated.) May 22. The Foreign Takeovers Bill was introduced to replace and extend the Companies (Foreign Take- overs) Act, 1972-74. The new legislation would enable the Government to screen all take-overs of Australian businesses by foreign interests. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transac- tions (the Trade Declaration) was renewed for one year. June 6. Global ta r i ff quotas were applied to certain yarns and textile products. June 20. The Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act, 1975 came into effect. The major changes to existing legislation related to the definition of normal value, the determination of injury, and the application of provi- sional antidumping duties. June 26. A small number of commodities were added to the list under Schedule A of the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement providing for the elimination of customs duties over a period of eight years. The first reduction in du ty on these items came into effect on July 1. AUSTRALIA July 1. The Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act expired. July 1. Existing import controls were continued on certain garments from the Republic of China and were extended to certain other garments. July 1. Import licensing requirements were intro- duced for certain garments from the Philippines, Singa- pore, and Thailand. July 1. An export restraint agreement effective for one year governing woven shirts and blouses for women was negotiated with Korea. July 1. Temporary import restraints were applied to certain garments imported from the People's Republic of China. July 24. The arrangements for the export of live cattle were eased. July 28. Denim was added to the items subject to the export restraint arrangement with Hong Kong. August 28. The Foreign Takeovers Act, 1975 received royal assent. It came into force on January 1, 1976 af ter the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act, 1972-74 had expired on December 31. September 24. New policy guidelines on foreign investment in Australia were announced. Foreign invest- ment proposals would henceforth be screened irrespec- tive of whether they involved exchange controls; previ- ously, proposals not involving exchange controls were not screened unless they fell within the ambit of the Foreign Takeovers Act. A new committee to screen proposals, the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, was established, by merging the Foreign Investment Comm i t tee and the Committee on Foreign Takeovers. Special requirements would have to be observed in respect of proposed investments in the fields of nonbank finance, insurance, and real estate. The new guidelines also contained a further elabora- tion of the Government's policy toward foreign invest- ment in minerals. It would no longer be necessary for foreign companies to seek Australian participation at the grass roots exploration stage, but they would be required to report to the Foreign Investment Advisory Commit- tee on their exploration programs. Foreign companies mak ing commercial mineral discoveries could proceed to the development stage only on the basis of the follow- ing guidelines: ( 1) With respect to u ran ium, the devel- opment of u ran ium ore bodies discovered under explora- tion licenses granted after September 24, 1975 would be on the basis of 100 per cent Australian ownership; for companies which had already discovered, or might in fu tu re discover, u ran ium ore bodies under exploration licenses granted up to September 24, 1975, the Govern- ment would be prepared to discuss particination in future development on fair and reasonable terms. (2) For other minerals, the Government would expect proposals for new mineral development projects to have no more than 50 per cent foreign ownership, with foreign partici- pants having no more than 50 per cent voting power on the board of the development company. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA November 11. Australia extended its generalized tariff preferences to Angola, the Cape Verde Islands, the Comoro Islands, Greece, Nau ru, Portugal (including T,. j ** legal tender in Papua New Guinea, which ceased to be part of the Australian monetary area. . " " " AUSTRIA (Position on January 1, 1976) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Aus- tr ian Schilling. Aus tr ia has notified the Fund that the rate for the Au s t r ian schilling is S 1 = SDR 0.0423597, but no announced margins are ma in ta ined for any cur- rency. In practice, and w i thout h av ing assumed any formal obligations in th is respect, the au thor i t ies observe margins of 4l/2 per cent either side of cross pa r i t ies for currencies participating in the European common ma r- gins arrangement. On December 31, 1975, the author- ized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were about S 18.51 per US$1. Forward p rem iums and discounts are, in principle, le ft to the in te rp lay of mar- ket forces. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as f rom August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian Na t ional Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through Au s t r i an banks authorized to implement the exchange control regu la t ions. The customs issue freely and w i thout delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the competent m in is try, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Indu s t ry (L icens ing Office) or the Federal M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "mu l t i la teral member countries" ( IMF or OECD members w i th which settle- ments take place in convertible currencies) and "multi- lateral nonmember countries" (o ther coun tr ies w i th which settlements are made in convertible currencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, In te r im Accoun ts for nonresidents residing in member coun tr ies of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accoun ts for nonres i- dents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of gold coins or conve r t ib le cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the conversion serves to make a current payment to a resident, as well as with payments permitted by the Na t ional Bank on the basis of a general or ind iv idual au tho r iza t ion. The accounts may be f ree ly debited for payments to Austrian residents, who mus t, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents or if the nonresident's payment serves to finance direct investment in Austria or the purchase of real estate in Aus tr ia. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked and Interim Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for paymen ts for m any current and some capital transac t ions. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked and In te r im Accounts is subject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Balances in Blocked Accounts exceed by far those in Interim Accounts. Nonresidents may also m a in t a in nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts, and subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not inc luded in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported f rom any country w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, when they are imported f rom any coun t ry other than Rhodesia.1 Nearly all imports from GATT countries, their associated terri- tories, and some other countries 2 are liberalized. Aus- tria's GATT liberalization is applied world-wide, except in respect of cotton textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, name ly, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation ( b a r t e r ). State trad ing covers tobacco in any fo rm, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT 1 Goods liberalized for import f rom a given g roup of countries may be f ree ly imported f rom any coun t ry in the group, provided that the coun try of expor ta t ion and the coun t ry of produc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. 2 The f u ll list is as fo l lows: A lge r ia, A rgen t ina, Au s t ra l ia, Bahra in, Bang ladesh, Barbados, Be lg ium, Ben in, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rm a, B u r u n d i, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cen tral A f r ican Republic, Chad, Chile, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyp rus, Denmark ( inc lud ing Faroe Islands and Green land), Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Egyp t, Equa to r ial Gu inea, F i j i, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, I re land, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Kenya, Korea, Kuw a i t, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mau r i tan ia, Mauritius, Nether- lands, New Zealand, N ica ragua, N iger, N iger ia, Norway, Pakistan, Pe ru, Po r tuga l, Qatar, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzer- land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tr in idad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tu rkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Un i ted K ingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U r u g u a y, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zamb ia. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA countries, except Japan. Discretionary ind iv idual licens- ing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, inc lud ing impo r ts of certain textiles f rom specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in b i la te ral t rade agreements. Import licenses may not be gran ted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. G ra ins, m i lk and butter, and cattle, pigs, and horses for s laugh ter and products f rom these animals for h um an consump t ion are imported in accordance w i th a special system of con tro ls and regulations ma in ta ined under the A g r i c u l t u r al Mar- ke t ing Law. In principle, import licenses are issued on ly to im p o r t- ers who have received trade licenses. Licenses granted to new importers take into account the am o u nt up to which the corresponding global quota has been u t i l ized. Import licenses are not transferable and are va l id for six months, but this period may be extended. Paymen ts for imports f rom, and or ig ina t ing in, coun tr ies w i th which Austria makes settlements in convertible curren- cies do not requ ire exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transac t ions involving current inv is ib les w i th resi- dents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport, films, and insurance. As to transac- tions in current invisibles that involve paymen ts to resi- dents of other countries, general licenses cover the majority of these (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repa irs); for the rema in ing trans- actions, ind iv idual licenses are required. The licenses are granted af ter account is taken of certain considera- tions, such as the principle of reciprocity and hard- ship cases. Payments on account of generally au thor ized inv i s i- bles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other paymen ts abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any t ime. The rema in ing payments to "multilateral nonmember coun- tries" for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange f rom authorized banks or take up as short- term advance from nonresidents in multilateral countries up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for trave l ing, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Aus tr ian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transporta- 54 t ion. Persons leav ing Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Au s t r ian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the competent m in is try or, at the time of clearance, from the customs. Goods exported under compensation arrangements are subject to l icens ing by the Federal M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued w i th due consideration for the provisions of relevant b i la teral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance w i th such agreements, and for the needs of the Aus tr ian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 mu st be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used free ly for authorized paymen ts abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account w i th an authorized bank, have to be declared w i th in eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be depos- ited w i th an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing f rom exports. Per- sons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign bankno tes and coins w i thout limit. Capital Some inwa rd capital transfers, some transactions that could lead to such inflows, and most private sector bor- rowing f rom nonresidents are at present restricted. The acqu is i t ion by nonresidents of Austrian securities from authorized banks is permitted freely, but the acquisition of shares or participations in Austrian companies or firms, and of most Aus tr ian real estate is subject to indi- vidual approval by the National Bank; direct investments by nonresidents no rma l ly are permitted when they serve to create or ma in ta in las t ing economic relations and provided that they are financed f rom foreign currency accounts or Free Schilling Accounts, or in freely con- vertible foreign currency, or f rom profit claims on the domestic firm concerned. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, inc lud ing those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the Na t ional Bank and m any are restricted. Approvals are granted particularly, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for producing enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year (which are licensed f ree ly ). The gran t ing of permissions for commercial credits with a maturity of one to five years to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passen- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ger automobiles, is restricted; import credit w i th a ma tu r i ty customary in the trade concerned, but not exceeding one year for consumer goods, is licensed freely. The short-term fore ign assets and l iab i l i t ies in con- vertible currencies of authorized banks are not subject to limitation, but a gentlemen's agreement with the National Bank provides that the domestic credit ins t i tu- tions are to abstain f rom increasing domestic l iqu id i ty by tak ing up foreign currency funds abroad and thus raising their schilling l iab i l i t ies, and f rom calling in the ir foreign loans prior to ma tu r i ty. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for on lend ing abroad at ma tur i t ies of up to five years. The Aus t r ian National Bank permits the t rans fer abroad of ( 1) proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Aus tr ian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Aus t r ia) and (2) repayments by residents of fo re ign loans and credits. The t rans fer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans up to the equivalent of S 260,000 a resident lender each year to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or indi- v idua l ly owned firms; earnings accruing f rom such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one yea r ), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct inves tment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the manage- ment of the nonresident en terpr ise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad, provided that the proceeds of the credit are not used w i th in Austria (except for commercial cred i ts). Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l ife insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documen ta t ion, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, fore ign securities issued in "multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges 3 and Austrian securities; for foreign securi- 3 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing n a tu re in whatever legal fo rm (including shares) that are issued by fore ign investment funds or by similar institutions of wha tever k ind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued auto- matically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange. AUSTRIA ties and Aus tr ian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, w i th certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the Vienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con- vertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Aus t r ian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited in accordance with the afore- mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely l ibera l iz ing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transac- t ions w i th monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers ( inc lud ing nonres iden ts); the prices are based on those for coins and unmanufac tured gold in free marke ts abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Aus tr ia and against payment in schillings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins (restrikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Aus tr ia, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medal- l ions; fur thermore, domestic trading between residents in gold w i th a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition f rom resi- dents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized indus- tr ial users, dentists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any fo rm. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry, which usually grants any license applied for by industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for cer- tain gold imports within its competence. Where this law 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold ba r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the pur- chase of gold; such licenses are issued after considera- tion of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coins that are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coins up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a m inor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs; commercial exports of a number of such arti- cles, however, must be licensed by the M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1975 January 1. As announced on December 18, 1974, the restrictions on the expansion of domestic bank credit were extended un t il June 30, 1975; credits in fore ign currencies granted to nonbank residents a f ter June 30, 1974 remained excluded f rom the relevant calculations. January 1. As announced on December 12, 1974, the gentlemen's agreement was temporarily suspended which had required the lodging of interest-free deposits w i th the Na t ional Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase in banks' schilling liabilities to nonresidents. However, the credit institutions were to continue to abstain f rom increasing domestic l iqu id i ty by tak ing up foreign cur- rency funds abroad and thus raising such schilling liabili- ties, and f rom calling in their foreign claims prior to maturity. The deposit requ irement could be reintro- duced by the National Bank whenever necessary and without consultation with the credit institutions, and the credit ins t i tu t ions were to in fo rm the Na t ional Bank immediately of any large foreign currency inflows. January 1. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 3/74 of December 19, 1974 extended the suspension of the liberalization of inward capital movements un t il Decem- ber 31, 1975 by extending the validity of the provisions of Announcement DE 8/73. As a result, restrictions remained in force on the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities, share rights in domestic companies, and domestic real property, as well as on other inward capital transfers and on the gran t ing of certain credits to nonresidents, except where the proceeds were to be spent abroad. January 1. The general license perm i t t ing credit insti- tutions to sell a limited amount of domestic securities to nonresidents was extended un t il December 31, 1975. The global quota for 1975 for such sales (which again was in addition to the amount of purchases by each bank f rom nonresidents, including redemption and 56 amortization) was set at S 1.5 billion. The National Bank indicated that applications for additional sales would be granted liberally once the quota had been taken up in full. January 1. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 2/74 of December 19, 1974 granted residents two general licenses permitting purchases of goods originating in "multilateral" countries for resale on a transit basis to residents of "multilateral" countries. The general licenses, which were expressed in terms of the accept- ance of monetary obligations and the mak ing of pay- ments, were not applicable to transactions involving Rhodesia. Previously, specific licenses were required for incu r r ing monetary obligations to nonresidents in respect of such t ran s it trade transactions. The issuance of the general licenses had become possible as a result of the exp ira t ion of the last clearing arrangement on Decem- ber 31, 1973. January 1. The va l id i ty of all existing unilateral tariff reductions (introduced under the price containment pro- gram that began in 1969) was carried over into 1975. (They were subsequently carried over also into 1976.) January 1. In accordance with the free trade agree- ment w i th the EEC, import duties on most industrial products of EEC origin were reduced by a fur ther 20 per cent. January 1. Further amendments to the scheme of generalized ta r i ff preferences for developing countries came into effect. Additional items, including agricultural products, became eligible for such preferences. The preferen t ial margin for industrial products other than textile products was raised from 30 per cent to 50 per cent; in the textile sector the margin was increased f rom 30 per cent to 35 per cent and the existing exceptions from eligibility for cotton textiles were removed. January 1. Austria extended its GATT liberalization world-wide, except for cotton textiles. As regards imports originating in Eastern European countries and in Japan, 205 tariff items remained subject, however, to screening of invoice prices. January 8. Austria informed the Fund that it sub- scribed to the voluntary Declaration on trade and other current account measures for balance of payments purposes. April 8. The Government announced that funds available for export f inanc ing would be increased by S 1 billion. On April 24, the National Bank raised the ceiling for the uncond i t ional rediscounting of export promotion bills f rom S 3 billion to S 4 billion for the period May 2, 1975-April 30, 1976. (On January 22, 1976 the Bank announced that the S 1 billion increase would rema in available un t il the end of 1976.) May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 20. The Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the commercial banks agreed on an extension dur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing the period Ju ly 1-December 31 of the restrictions on the growth of domestic bank credit. The l im it on credit expansion would rema in at 1 per cent a mon th. The National Bank would authorize capital imports more liberally than hitherto. June 20. The Na t ional Bank announced certain lib- eralization measures for capital inflows and outflows. With respect to inflows, the Bank would w i th immediate effect issue ind iv idual au tho r iza t ions for the fo l low ing: (1) the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic real estate in connection with the exploitation or f in ish ing of bu i ld ings whose construction was started before Novem- ber 29, 1972, provided that at the time the sale of build- ing and land to foreign na t iona ls had already been planned and had been approved by the competent land commission; (2) direct investments by nonresidents in the secondary sector of the economy, viz., in indus t ry and in sma ll t r ad ing and m a n u f a c t u r i ng f irms (except in the bu i ld ing t rade ), and in the tertiary sector, viz., in tourism and in the establishment of ma rke t ing firms at the wholesale level by fore ign producers; ( 3) the grant- ing of commercial credits by residents to nonresidents, for expenditure in Aus tr ia; and (4) f am i ly loans f rom nonresidents to residents up to the equivalent of S 260,000 a borrower a year. With respect to outflows, the National Bank would henceforth approve applica- tions for (1) f am i ly loans and (2) g i f ts and support remittances, from residents to nonresidents resident or domiciled in "multilateral member countries." July 3. Two federal laws amended the Export Promo- tion Law of 1964 and the Law for the Promotion of Export Financing of 1967, respectively. November 27. The Export Promotion Decree, 1975 was issued. It provided for an improvement of the export credit insurance facilities. Among other things, exports of services became eligible for federal export credit guarantees. December 2. The M in is try of Finance, the National Bank, and the commercial banks agreed on an extension until June 30, 1976 of the ceiling of 12 per cent per annum on the expansion of domestic bank credit. For the t ime being, however, and w i th effect f rom Octo- ber 31, 1975, banks would not be penalized for exceed- AUSTRIA ing this ceiling. Some of the credit institutions' commit- ments to prevent capital inflows would continue in force. December 6. M in imum import prices were imposed for the period to October 31, 1976 on specified textile products, irrespective of origin. December 21. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 2/75 of December 19 was published. It provided for the substantial reliberalization of inward capital movements f rom "multilateral member countries," with effect from January 1, 1976 (see below). It also revoked Announcement DE 12/71, with effect from Decem- ber 31, 1975. The fo l low ing changes took place at the beginning of 1976: January 1. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 2/75 came in to effect. It specified the outward and inward capital t rans fe rs for wh ich the Na t ional Bank was pre- pared to issue individual licenses; in most cases, the paymen ts or contracts had to relate to "multilateral member countries." The restrictions imposed in 1972 on inward direct investment and on inward portfolio invest- ment in quoted and unquo ted securities were lifted. The res tr ic t ions on inward commercial credits were l if ted for credits w i th a ma tur i ty of less than one year and, where the m a tu r i ty was one to five years, were limited to those in tended to finance the import of consumer goods. Un t il fu r ther notice, there were excepted from the transactions that had been generally permitted by v ir tue of Foreign Exchange Announcemen ts DE 10/71 and DE 11/71, any acts in connection with the acquisition by non- residents f rom residents of (1) domestic securities, (2) shares or participations in domestic enterprises, (3) domestic real estate, and (4) rental rights to such real estate. In a separate action, however, the National Bank granted the commercial banks a general permis- sion to sell domestic securities to nonresidents. January 1. In accordance with the free trade arrange- ment w i th the EEC, import duties on most indus t r ial products of EEC origin were reduced by a further 20 per cent. January 1. The general rate of value-added tax was increased from 16 per cent to 18 per cent. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Bahamian Dollar, which corresponds to B$l = US$1, and the Bahamas avails itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, and only with com- mercial banks. It buys U.S. dollars at par and charges a commission of V* of 1 per cent when selling. It buys sterling at the New York market mid-rate against the U.S. dollar and charges a commission of l/2 of 1 per cent on this mid-rate when selling. For transactions in transfers and draf ts with the public, banks are autho- rized to charge a commission of Vz of 1 per cent buying, and 94 of 1 per cent selling, per U.S. dollar, and V* of 1 per cent, buying or selling, per <£ stg. 1; these charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. In addi- tion, a stamp tax of 1A of 1 per cent is imposed on out- ward transfers; remittances from Freeport on behalf of the Port Authority or any licensee in respect of their own business w i th in the port area and remittances from bank accounts outside the Bahamas are exempt. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through the intermediary of an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. This premium was 13 per cent on December 31, 1975, unchanged since March 1974. As from December 5, 1973, the Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Bahamas, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, arms and ammun i t ion, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. The admin- istration of exchange and trade controls is not un i fo rm 1 This is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liqui- dation, redemption, or realization of property or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of foreign currency securities and the mak ing of direct investments outside the Bahamas. 58 throughout the Bahamas. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency The Bahamas has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- l ing Area. The Bahamas' exchange controls extend to all territories outside the Bahamas and make no dis- tinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency2 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits but without work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investment may also be credited to these accounts. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transfer- able through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested in certain resident- held assets or spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or human i tar ian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of or ig in ;4 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. An import surcharge ("emergency tax") of l2l/2 per 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 3 Physical persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated as nonresidents but are not perm i t ted to hold Ex ternal Accounts. 4 Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this au thor i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cent ad valorem is levied on most imports. Customs entries are subject to stamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Autho- rized dealers have been given authority to make pay- ments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles w i th in specified limits. Such payments include freight, ships' disbursements, commis- sions, royalties, interest on Baham ian assets, and insur- ance payments. Residents are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The amount of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Baham ian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amoun ts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad for use on a journey or be used abroad for other purposes; any unused bal- ance must be surrendered w i th in one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate docu- mentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally given upon application to authorized dealers. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount have to be referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit their wages and salaries which are in excess of their need in the Bahamas. There are no restrictions on the export of coins expressed in any currency, but in principle, the export by travelers of domestic banknotes is limited to B$70 and of foreign currency notes to the equivalent of B$l,000; in practice these limits are not enforced. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner satisfactory to the Central Bank. The surrender requirements are seldom enforced. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes. The import of domestic banknotes is subject in principle to the approval of the Central Bank, but in practice any amount may be brought in by travelers. BAHAMAS Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Baha- mas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any act whereby non- residents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and com- panies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for outward direct invest- ment is limited to B$ 150,000 or 50 per cent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for invest- ments f rom which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the invest- men t, will at least equal the total amount of investment and continue thereafter. Investments in excess of B$ 150,000 must be financed by investment currency or by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to individual approval by the Central Bank. Projects which do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Per- mission is not given for projects which are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward investment by nonresidents in principle is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Baha- m ian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Where the investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such permission is normally granted, provided that a fa ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Baha- m ian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, permission is automatically given for the t rans fer of profits and dividends, representing earned trading profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Cen- tral Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can only be made with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses con- nected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expendi- tures necessary to preserve the property or arising 5 Banks and t rus ts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their o f fsho re operations. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS directly from its ownership, may w i th permission be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official fore ign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of per- sons who were Baham ian residents at the t ime of their death is permitted. However, permission is not nor- mally given for Baham ian residents to settle any prop- erty, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash g if ts to nonres iden ts not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption f rom certain exchange control obligations, notably w i th respect to the manda tory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Baham ian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars f rom an Exter- nal Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Baham ian dollars ar is ing f rom the sale of foreign currency in the off ic ial fo re ign exchange market; interest, dividends, and capital paymen ts on such securities may not be remitted outside the Baha- mas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Baham ian residents are not permitted to purchase fore ign currency securities w i th official exchange or out of export proceeds or other cu r rent earnings; payment must be made w i th inves tment cur- rency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Baham ian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission f rom the Central Bank, and all transac t ions must take place through authorized agents.0 All fo re ign securities pur- chased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other Ster- ling Area countries are considered fore ign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by Decem- ber 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment cur- rency market; securities not properly registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the in ten t ion of residing outside the Bahamas permanently are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules a fam i ly (or an ind iv idua l ), leav ing the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere, may transfer at the current market rate in the off ic ial fore ign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of its (or his) Baham ian dollar assets to the new country of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. Where the total value of their Baham ian dollar assets 0 These are ten banks and t ru st companies and others au tho r ized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securi- ties in deposit. 60 is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time. After a per- son's redesignation as a nonresident, income accruing f rom his assets rema in ing in the Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official for- eign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions with regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans through the conversion of Bahamian dollars. Where permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is nor- mally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company which is wholly owned by non- residents of the Bahamas is not normally allowed to raise work ing capital in Baham ian dollars unless such f u n ds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by nonresidents, approval of such local currency borrowing is determined on a basis pro rata to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas require permission before they make loans in domestic currency to any body corporate (other than a b a n k ), which is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by non- residents. However, companies which are set up by nonresidents p r ima r i ly to import and distribute products manu fac tu red outside the Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Baham ian dollars f rom residents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a for- eign currency norma l ly are permitted on application. Generally, authorized dealers may provide credit in Baham ian dollars to nonresidents in respect of imports, where the purchase of foreign currency is duly autho- rized and provided that the validity of the credit does not exceed the period of authorization. Foreign cur- rency deposited with authorized dealers may be on-lent to nonresidents for any purpose. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized deal- ers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for indus tr ial purposes may, w i th the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current indus tr ial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to industrial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import du ty on gold bullion or gold coins; how- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ever, an import duty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A ll/2 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, and B$200; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1975 April 2. A set of legal tender gold coins in denomi- nations of B$50, B$100, B$150, and B$200 was issued. April 17. A new customs tariff based on the Brussels tariff nomenclature and amending the existing rates of du ty was published. November 26. The Bahamas abolished its Common- wealth tariff preferences. BAHAMAS 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.86621 grams of fine gold per Bahrain Dinar, corresponding to BD 0.394737 - US$1, and Bahrain avails itself of wider margins. The Bahrain Monetary Agency quotes daily rates for the U.S. dollar based on the par value and daily rates for pounds ster- ling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1975, the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.39550 and BD 0.39580 per US$1, respectively, and those for ster- ling were BD 0.79925 and BD 0.80175 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. The Monetary Agency does not deal w i th the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control author- ity but there is no exchange control legislation in Bah- rain. Bahrain has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore Banking Units are riot normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are products manufac tured by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security; imports of cul- tured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are 62 required only for arms and ammunition, television cam- eras, and alcoholic beverages. Cement can only be imported by the Bahrain Import-Export Company, and rice and sugar are in practice imported only by that company. Exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodi- ties may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the pro- ceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds f rom invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but no payments may be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely with the exception that under the Banking Control Law, banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed Offshore Bank ing Units may freely engage in transac- tions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely and without a license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely per- mitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1975 January 4. The Monetary Agency started quoting daily rates for the U.S. dollar, based on the par value. It also modified the basis for the daily quotations for sterling. The commercial banks henceforth used the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar as the basis for their quotations for other currencies. Previously, the Monetary Agency quoted daily rates for sterling only, and the commercial banks' rates for other cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN rencies were based on the Monetary Agency's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against sterling. January 4. Definitions of the concepts of resident and nonresident were issued. September 27. The Monetary Agency announced an offshore banking scheme. Domestic and foreign banks licensed by the Agency to operate Offshore Banking Units would be granted special facilities to engage in Euro-currency and similar business. They would not normally be permitted to engage in domestic business, although the Monetary Agency could grant exemptions for projects in the national interest. November 26. Applications from 15 foreign banks and domestic branches of foreign banks to be licensed to operate Offshore Banking Units were approved. December 10. The ban on exports to Portugal of cer- tain refined petroleum products was lifted. December 22. A scheme was announced whereby travelers from the United Arab Emirates were permitted to use U.A.E. dirhams at the fixed rate of Dh 10 = BD 1, for transactions up to BD 500. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System 1 No par value or central rate for the Bangladesh cur- rency, the Taka, has been established. The official exchange rate is Tk 30 = <£ stg. 1, and the currency is floating w i th sterling. Exchange rates for currencies other than s ter l ing and the Ind ian rupee are based on the London ma rket rates for the currenc ies concerned. On December 31, 1975, the spot b u y i ng and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank ( the central b ank) for authorized dealers were Tk 29.9844 per £ stg. 1 and Tk 30.0313 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. On December 31, 1975, the spot buy ing and selling rates ( te leg raph ic t r an s f e r s) of authorized dealers were Tk 29.9688 per <£ stg. 1 and Tk 30.0625 per £ stg. 1, respectively. Forward t ransac t ions of the Bang ladesh Bank are confined to purchases of sterling and U.S. dollars and sales of sterling. Forward fac i l i t ies at au tho r ized b anks are available for export proceeds in s ter l ing and U.S. dollars and for import paymen ts in s te r l ing, as well as ce r ta in s ter l ing paymen ts of sh ipp ing compan ies and airlines. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance w i th general policy fo rmu l a t ed in con su l ta t ion w i th the M in i s t ry of F inance. The four fo re ign and six domestic commerc ial b anks have been appointed au thor ized dealers (au tho r ized b a n k s ). The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in- istry of Commerce (Foreign Trade D iv i s ion) is respon- sible for the issuance of impo rt and export licenses. Certain t rade t ransac t ions are conduc ted th rough state t r ad ing agencies, in c lud ing the T rad ing Corpora t ion of Bangladesh (TCB) and the Bang ladesh Ju te Export Corporation. Prescription of Currency Bangladesh has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cu r rent U .K. exchange con trol regu la t ions con t inues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas S ter l ing Area. Settlements w i th a ll coun t r ies are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th countries w i th which Bangladesh has b i la te ral paymen ts agreemen ts 2 norma l ly must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Paymen ts to, and receipts f r om, member coun t r ies of the As ian C lea r ing Un ion ( Ind i a, I r an, Nepal, Pak is tan, and Sri L a n k a) in respect of cu r rent t ransac t ions (o ther than those relat- ing to pe tro leum, n a t u r al gas, and the ir p roduc t s) may, but need not, be effected in As ian mone ta ry un i ts aW i th effect from April 26, 1976 Bangladesh established a central ra te of Tk 28.10 = £ stg. 1 and ava i led itself of w ider m a rg in s. 2 Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, G e rm an Democ ra t ic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugo s lav ia. 64 th rough the C lea r ing Un ion. As regards other coun- tries, settlements norma l ly take place in sterling and other conver t ib le currenc ies or through Nonres ident Taka Accounts. Paymen ts for imports may be made to the coun t ry of or ig in of the goods or to any other coun t ry (w i th the exception of those countries f rom which impor ta t ion is p roh ib i t ed ); they may be made ( 1) in takas for cred it to an account in Bangladesh held by a resident of the country concerned or of any coun t ry in the Overseas S te r l ing A rea; (2) in the local currency of the coun t ry concerned; or ( 3) in pounds s te r l ing, U.S. do l la rs, or any other cu r rency specified by the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Export proceeds must be received in free ly conver t ib le fo re ign exchange, or in takas f rom a Non res ident Taka Account of a bank in any coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements w i th Rhodes ia and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idu a l s, firms, or companies resident in coun tr ies outside Bangladesh are designated Non re s ident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the coun t ry in wh ich the account holder is permanen t ly r e s i d i n g /5 Specified debit and credit en tr ies to nonresident accoun ts may be made by authorized dealers w i thout pr ior approval of the Bang ladesh Bank d u r i ng the absence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Certain o ther deb i ts and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bang ladesh Bank but sub ject to reporting ex post. A ll d ip loma t ic m iss ions ope ra t ing in Bang ladesh, their d ip lom a t ic officers, home-based members of the mission s ta f f s, and in t e rn a t ion al nonp ro f it h um a n i t a r i an organiza- t ions f u n c t i o n i ng in Bangladesh and the ir expatriate employees are allowed to m a i n t a in Convertible Taka Accounts. These accoun ts may be credited free ly with receipts of inw a rd rem i t tances in conver t ib le fore ign exchange, and may be debited f ree ly and at any time for rem i t tances abroad in conver t ib le currencies and for t r a n s f e rs to Nonconve r t ib le Taka Accounts. Trans- fe rs between Conver t ib le Taka Accoun ts are freely pe rm i t ted. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh na- t iona ls and persons of Bang ladesh or ig in who are work- ing and e a rn ing abroad are pe rm i t ted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denom ina ted in pounds sterling or U.S. do l la rs (w i th effect f rom February 27, 1975). These accoun ts may be credited w i th ( 1) rem i t tances in conver t ib le currenc ies received f rom abroad through normal bank ing channe ls; (2) proceeds of convertible 3 The accoun ts of the Un i ted Na t ions and its o rgan iza t ions, however, are t r e a t ed as res ident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on temporary visits to Bangladesh, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangla- desh; and (3) transfers f rom other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, w i thout restriction, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) pay- ments for imports of specified goods; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the hand l ing of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes by the account holder and his nominee authorized to operate the account, or by any other person authorized by him or his nominee w i th the permission of the Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports financed from Bangladesh's own resources are licensed within the framework of a semi- annual import policy (import budge t ). Under the import policy for the "shipping" period, July-December 1975, items permissible for import were classified into four broad categories: ( 1) goods permitted to be imported by "commercial importers," including the TCB; (2) raw material and packing materials permitted to be imported by "industrial units" recognized as such under an entitlement system; ( 3) items permitted to be imported exclusively by the TCB and/or jointly by the TCB and private sector importers; and (4) items that could be imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme against payment from Foreign Currency Accounts. No provision was made for commercial imports of any other goods, whose importation, therefore, was de facto pro- hibited unless financed by foreign aid. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses. Single country licenses are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for most aid imports. Other import licenses are valid world-wide, except for Rhodesia and South Africa. Licenses issued to commercial importers are valid for a period of nine months from the date of issuance. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire are not normally revalidated except where, owing to circumstances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made. Irrevocable letters of credit must be opened within four months from the date of issuance of licenses, except BANGLADESH for books and periodicals, which may be imported on a consignment basis. Many imports are reserved for the TCB, including certain chemical and metal products, cement, sugar, certain cotton textiles, and woolen fab- rics. In addition, the importation of a number of items is reserved exclusively to other public sector agencies; these include airplane parts, fire engines, coal and coke, cinematographic films, certain cotton textiles, edible oil, fertilizers, insecticides, and wood and timber. There are limited facilities outside the import program for minor imports by specified end-users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries during each "shipping" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sectors are given an entitle- ment for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry con- cerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging industrial exports, industries engaged in export business (other than in jute, ju te goods, or tea), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed within six months of the realization of the export proceeds. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. No foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis; as a rule, for business travel the amount granted is <£ stg. 10 a day, subject to a max imum of £ stg. 500 a calendar year, pro- vided that total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk 1 million, and for medical treatment about <£ stg. 400. Subject to certain conditions, travel abroad may be financed from balances held in Foreign Cur- rency Accounts. Foreign nationals working in Bangla- desh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for fam i ly maintenance purposes; such approval 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH is usually granted for 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of <£ stg. 200 a month (net of tax) if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 250 into convertible foreign currencies. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh nationals may take out Tk 20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. The Jute Mills Corporation has a monopoly over the export of jute goods. The proceeds from exports of jute goods and tea must be received w i th in six months of shipment, those from exports of perishable goods to India within two months of shipment, and those from other exports within four months of shipment. Certain export industries are granted incentives through a Raw Materials Replenishment Scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain the countervalue of certain foreign exchange in Foreign Currency Accounts. The import of Bangladesh cur- rency notes and coins is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, pro- vided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval, which generally is given. All Bangla- desh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their pos- session, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. There is no restriction on the importation of secu- rities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by persons resident in Bangla- 66 desh, or outside Bangladesh, and to all foreign securities held by persons resident in Bangladesh. Approval is given if securities are returned to Bangladesh within a specified period or, if they are sold, if the proceeds are repatriated to Bangladesh. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts f rom overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, pro- vided that they are obtained only in the currency of the coun try or monetary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin is pro- hibited. Borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangla- desh, as well as from abroad, requires approval, and loans in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh by authorized dealers also require approval. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to com- panies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before mak ing any long-term loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. Under the revised Industrial Investment Policy an- nounced on Ju ly 16, 1974, as amended in December 1975, foreign private investment is permitted in collabo- ration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. In the private sector, however, foreign partici- pation will be limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available; where the technology involved is very complicated; or where capital outlay is high; and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, the foreign investors generally are to provide the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component as equity capital. The ceiling on private investment is Tk 100 million. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to seven years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Invest- ment Board. Under this policy, dividends on foreign capital can be remitted net of tax. Also remittable are 50 per cent of the net salary of foreign nationals, up to a maximum of <£ stg. 200 a month a person, and savings from earnings, retirement benefits, and personal assets on termination of services or retirement. The moratorium on nationalization has been deleted. However, it has been stated that in the event of nationalization of any industry, compensation will be paid on a fair and equitable basis. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1975 January I. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments arrangements with India, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 9. The import policy for the first half of 1975 was announced. It provided for total imports valued at Tk 3 billion, implying considerable liberaliza- tion. The list of goods which could be imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme was expanded. February 22. Authorized dealers were instructed henceforth to open Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of Bangladesh nationals or persons of Bangladesh origin working and earning abroad, instead of Nonresi- dent Convertible Taka Accounts. Such Foreign Cur- rency Accounts could be opened in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. Balances in existing Nonresident Con- vertible Taka Accounts could be converted into ster- ling or U.S. dollars and credited to Foreign Currency Accounts. These could be opened to enable eligible persons to import commodities listed in List III of Pub- lic Notice No. 1(75) /Import of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports issued on Janua ry 9, 1975; the accounts could also be used for other purposes, including travel abroad, by the account holder or any other person authorized by him. Advance import permits issued under the Wage Earn- ers' Scheme would be freely transferable, by endorse- ment, to any Bangladesh national or person of Bangla- desh origin, and to any firm or company registered in Bangladesh. The advance import permit and the import license were required to be registered by the central bank. The Scheme was not applicable to government officials, or to employees of semigovernment and autono- mous bodies (Foreign Exchange Circular No. 17). March 11. The tax on import licenses henceforth was collected at the time of retirement of the import docu- ments, rather than upon opening of the letter of credit. April 3. Authorized dealers were informed that they could enter into interbank dealings, spot or fo rwa rd, in all foreign currencies in which they dealt. In addition, they were henceforth allowed to give forward sales cover to their customers (F.E. Circular No. 26 ). May 17. With effect f rom May 19, the official exchange rate was changed f rom Tk 18.9677 = £ stg. 1 to Tk 30 = «£ stg. 1. The exchange rate structure was unified by the abolition of the 30 per cent exchange tax applicable to certain purchases of travel exchange, and of the Premium Scheme for Home Remittance, under which certain inward remittances had received a pre- mium and had been converted at Tk 30 per <£ stg. 1. May 19. The import license tax of 20 per cent of the face value of all licenses and other forms of import per- mits was abolished. BANGLADESH May 19. The cash subsidy scheme for exports was abolished. June 21. Direct trade relations having been estab- lished with the People's Republic of China, authorized dealers were permitted to open letters of credit for imports from the People's Republic of China and to accept letters of credit in respect of exports to that country (F.E. Circular No. 51). July 1. The coverage of the Wage Earners' Scheme was fur ther expanded. Henceforth, any item importable by the TCB, public corporations, industrial units, or commercial importers was eligible for import under the Scheme. July 1. The import policy for the second half of 1975 was announced. It provided for total imports valued at Tk 5.5 billion, implying fur ther liberalization. Import procedures were improved. End-users were enabled to import certain raw materials and capital goods direct, rather than through the TCB; among the items for which the TCB ceased to be the sole importer were copper and raw rubber. Also, importers could obtain allocations for groups of commodities, rather than single items. The validity of import licenses was extended to nine months. The requirement of deferred payment terms of at least 180 days for commercial imports was termi- nated. Recognized industrial units were exempted from import duties on their fu ll half-yearly entitlement of raw materials and spare parts. The list of goods eligible for import under the Wage Earners' Scheme was fur ther expanded. August 22. Export duties were imposed on long ju te and ju te cuttings. September 12. Authorized dealers were informed of new arrangements for ha jj pilgrimages. The foreign exchange quota for eligible persons was the equivalent of Tk 8,000 (F.E. Circular No. 72 ). This was increased to Tk 8,066 on October 25 (F.E. Circular No. 92 ). September 18. Import licenses on a cash basis became subject to the condition that letters of credit must be opened within four months f rom the date of issue (F.E. Circular No. 98 ). September 23. The export of raw ju te ceased to be the monopoly of the Bangladesh Jute Export Corpo- ration. September 30. Authorized dealers were advised that, where Bangladesh nationals or persons of Bangladesh origin remitted funds from abroad in foreign exchange through normal bank ing channels direct to their bene- ficiaries in Bangladesh (instead of for credit to their Foreign Currency Accounts), the beneficiaries could use the funds so received for import under the Wage Earn- ers' Scheme, subject to specified conditions. Where advance import permits were not obtained within one month f rom the date of receipt of the remittance advance in Bangladesh, the bank concerned would encash the foreign exchange amount of the remittance and pay the taka proceeds to the beneficiary. Remit- 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH tances received under this procedure could not be repa- tr ia ted (F.E. Circular No. 83). October 16. The general permission was w i thd rawn which had been accorded to authorized dealers in 1970 in connection w i th the issue or t rans fer of securities in favor of nonresidents against payment outside Bangla- desh a n d / or investment made out of the genu ine savings of the investors in Bangladesh or out of f u n ds trans- ferred to Bangladesh from abroad (F.E. Circular No. 85). October 21. Authorized dealers were empowered to approve applications for remittances up to Tk 500 a person a calendar year made by ind iv idual s tuden ts or readers for imports of textbooks, reference books, and technical journa ls (F.E. Circular No. 86). October 30. The central bank stood ready to purchase from, or rediscount for, authorized dealers, export bills of exchange drawn in any free ly convertible foreign currency and payable abroad (F.E. Circular No. 94 ). November 1. The Asian Clearing Un ion began opera- tions. At the option of the payor or payee, payments and receipts for current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their products) to and from India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka could be settled in Asian monetary un i ts (1 As ian mone- tary un it = SDR 1). November 1. Authorized dealers were advised tha t, the restriction on direct trade w i th Pakistan hav ing been w i thd rawn, they could open letters of credit providing for sh ipment f rom Pak is tani ports and to accept letters of credit in respect of exports for direct shipment to such ports (F.E. Circular No. 95). November 12. The central bank stood ready again to sell sterling forward to authorized dealers. The maturi- ties offered were three mon ths and six months. Autho- rized dealers could sell sterling forward, for imports against cash licenses only, to all importers in the pri- vate or public sector, except government departments (F.E. Circular No. 97 ). November 15. The terms and conditions on which the central bank stood ready to purchase U.S. dollars forward from authorized dealers, for three or six months' delivery, were modified (F.E. Circular No. 100). December 1. The agreement w i th the EEC on trade in ju te products, signed on November 26, 1974, came into force. December 7. The ceiling on direct participation by foreign nationals in the ownership of private firms was raised f rom Tk 30 million to Tk 100 million. December 19. The central bank began to set spot buy ing and selling rates for the Asian mone tary un i t, in terms of taka, for each accounting period of the As ian Clearing Un ion (F.E. Circular No. 110). 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Barbados Dollar. A central rate of BDS$2 = US$1 has been established, and Barbados avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Barbados buys and sells U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling; under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authori- ties, it sells but does not purchase East Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Dealings by the Central Bank are chiefly with the commercial banks. The Central Bank has fixed rates for dealings in U.S. dollars, Guyana dollars, and Jamaica dollars; the rates include commis- sion charges of Vs of 1 per cent buying and l/2 of 1 per cent selling for the U.S. dollar and Vs of 1 per cent selling for the Guyana dollar and the Jamaica dollar. The Central Bank quotes on a daily basis its dealing rates for Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, East Carib- bean dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars; com- mission charges of %e of 1 per cent buying and 5/s of 1 per cent selling for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling and Ys of 1 per cent selling for the East Carib- bean dollar and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are included in the rates. The Central Bank regulates the commission which may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, East Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dol- lars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars; commission on dealings by the commercial banks in Canadian dollars and other currencies is not so regulated. On December 31, 1975, the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0100, respectively, and those for sterling were BDS$4.0399 and BDS$4.0728, respectively. Under clearing arrangements with the East Caribbean Currency Authority and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, the Central Bank of Barbados purchases from the commercial banks currency notes issued by these monetary authorities and repatriates them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Barbados notes. The rate applied mutually for pur- chase of currency notes is the cross rate between each pair of currencies determined through the U.S. dollar/ sterling middle rate. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is admin- istered by the Central Bank of Barbados, to which the Minister of Finance has delegated the performance of his ordinary functions as the Exchange Control Au- thority. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import pay- ments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South Afr ica. Trade controls are adminis- tered by the M in is t ry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Barbados has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Settlements with residents of the Sterling Area countries, other than member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR icoM ) ,1 may be made in sterling, in any other Sterling Area currency, or in Barbados dollars from External Accounts. Settlements w i th residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign cur- rency2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM coun- tries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of other countries.3 Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are maintained in foreign currencies, is given on the basis of the antici- pated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be cred- ited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, subject to the conditions of approval at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of fore ign currencies, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and with pay- ments by residents for which general or specific permis- sion has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the 1 The CARICOM countries are An t igua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, Guy an a, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 3 Residents of Barbados are also permitted to maintain such accounts under similar conditions. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other paymen ts covered by dele- gated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act, 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents which are ineligible for t rans fer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited and imports or ig ina t ing in the People's Republic of China, the CMEA countries, North Korea, Japan, and Portugal require individual licenses. Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foods tuffs and beer. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses; these include passenger automobiles, buses, refr igera tors, cement, unref ined gold, sewing machines, certain petro- leum products, certain foods tuffs and beverages, and certain textiles. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities subject to the provisions of the Oil and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. Where commo- dities are placed under license, it is necessary to seek a license whether the goods are being imported f rom CARICOM countries or elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. All imports not referred to previously are on open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran ts) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia and South Afr ica, payments for all com- mercial transactions are permitted freely when the appli- cation is supported by appropriate documentary evi- dence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal na tu re and for sun- dry payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to BDS$4,500 a person a calendar year for business t rave l ), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a y e a r ), sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. With the exception of tourism, applications for addi- tional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, pro- 70 vided that no unau thor ized t rans fer of capital seems to be involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of BDS$ 1,500 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Barba- dos may take out fore ign currency notes and coins up to the va lue of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these goods include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum prod- ucts. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign cur- rencies are surrendered w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may b r ing in freely notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital t rans fe rs require exchange con- trol approval. Direct investments outside Barbados by residents require exchange control approval. The pur- chase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes also requires exchange control approval. Certificates of title to fore ign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Barbados and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and sur- rendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers such as inheritances to non- residents require exchange control approval, which is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. Dowries in the form of settlements, and cash g if ts normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year may be transferred, w i th exchange control approval, to nonresi- dents; the au thor i ty to approve cash gifts up to BDS$50 a donor a year is delegated to authorized dealers. Em igra t ing Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances f rom their declared assets at the rate of BDS$24,000 a f am i ly un it a year. The Central Bank also considers applications f rom foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment in Barbados by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and to the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securi- ties registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign cur- rency sources. Nonresidents may acquire in Barbados real estate for private purposes with funds f rom foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordi- narily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatri- ated freely on the basis of a rate of return on the orig- inal foreign investment, calculated at the following rates: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amoun ts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to bor- row in Barbados. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A gold coin with a face value of BDS$100 is legal tender and is in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic pur- BARBADOS poses. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce; no license is required to export gold but exchange control permis- sion is required to do so. Changes during 1975 During the year, additional imports from all sources became subject to specific license. These included paints, instant coffee, salt, sulfuric acid, ju te sacks, certain textiles, and sewing machines. February 12. The Central Bank henceforth was pre- pared, in dealings with commercial banks, to both buy and sell U.S. dollars. Previously, the Bank bought and sold sterling, and purchased but did not sell U.S. dollars. May 30. The Prime Minister announced the Govern- ment's intention to fix the value of the Barbados dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar. July 5. The currency was repegged from sterling to the U.S. dollar. A central rate of BDS$2 = US$1 was established, and Barbados availed itself of wider margins. Previously, a fixed relationship of BDS$4.80 = <£ stg. 1 was maintained. September 23. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of BDS$100 was issued. October 9. The Central Bank began to quote rates to the commercial banks for selling Canadian dollars. November 20. A new export levy on sugar was intro- duced. December 10. The normal exchange control direc- tives became formally applicable also to transactions with residents of Portugal. December 10. The Central Bank specified the forms that invested funds eligible for registration as a foreign investment could take. December 18. The Central Bank announced that it would continue to consider applications for the transfer of land, buildings, or hereditaments situated in Barbados where nonresidents were involved. Ordinarily, however, nonresidents would be required to make payment in full at the time of purchase of real property. The Central Bank would normally consider applications for mortgage facilities only in respect of (1) nonresidents who were Barbadian nationals, and (2) other nonresidents invest- ing substantial amounts of external funds in productive enterprises in Barbados. December 30. The East Caribbean Currency Author- ity was deleted from the list of authorized dealers and authorized depositories. December 31. The Commonwealth tariff preferences of Barbados expired. The CARICOM common external tariff came into force the following day. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc. Bel- gium and Luxembourg have established central rates of BF/Lux F 48.6572 = SDR 1, and avail themselves of wider margins. There are two spot exchange markets — the official (reglemente or regulated) and the free; these markets are separated and foreign currency acquired in one may not be sold in the other. Most current transac- tions are settled in the official market and most capital transactions in the free market. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 Belgium-Luxembourg ma in ta ins a max imum margin of 2!4 per cent for exchange rates in the official market between the Belgian franc/Luxembourg franc and the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona, while a maximum margin of BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commer- cial expenses, including insurance; List B covers settle- ments of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscrip- tions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers (1) administration expenses, (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and (3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of invest- ments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Bel- gian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agen- cies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS A ,B C D A, B, C, D Convertible Convertible Convertible Bilateral A ,B C D A ,B C D Convertible Convertible Convertible Bilateral Bilateral Bilateral Outward Payments Official Convertible Any Any Official or free Free Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Any Convertible Convertible Any Official Official or free Free Free Official Official or free Free Free Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* Convertible ) Convertible j or Financial Financial Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral* * Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements w i th Zaire may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zaires held with banks in Zaire. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, transac- tions contained in Lists A and B must be settled through the official market (or, if made in Belgian and Luxem- bourg francs, through Convertible Accounts) and those contained in List D through the free market (or through Financial Accounts). Transactions in List C may be set- tled through either the official or the free market (or through either Convertible or Financial Accounts). Transactions that may or must be settled through the free market may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresidents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG market, and these accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.4 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresi- dent of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authoriza- tion by the IBLC. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,5 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium- Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 3 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from 4 International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equiva- lent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of the organizations and representations mentioned may maintain Special Convertible Accounts. 5 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic repre- sentations accredited in the BLEU and by specified international organi- zations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for profes- sional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. 74 Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam,6 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries except Luxembourg.7 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and food- stuffs, coal and petroleum products, and diamonds. All other commodities are free of license and quantitative restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required, which must be presented to an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The author- ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 10 million, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance. Payments for transit transactions must be made within three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the for- eign buyer. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac- tions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Support- ing documents must be presented to an authorized bank; for payments exceeding BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of the supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to con- vertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Converti- ble Account) or through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Finan- fl Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 7 Most imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EEC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); pay- ments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 3) must be made by crediting Belgian or Lux- embourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zai'res through a convertible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries except Luxembourg.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notifica- tion of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The author- ized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t ), or, alterna- tively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments author- ized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization of the IBLC; in addition, payments for exports to bilat- eral countries may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for exportation; pro- ceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market), or alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these curren- cies. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceeding BF 10 million 8 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or for- eign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, fam i ly maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial character, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license, and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial set- tlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have in practice been made by international organizations, while issues of Euro-bonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally permitted. The Luxembourg authorities from time to time have permitted Euro-bond issues denominated in Luxembourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, or in the case of Zaire, in zaires; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market, or in the case of Zaire, in zaires. The external position of authorized banks is subject to control. Banks in Belgium and Luxembourg have been 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG requested not to allow their net external debtor spot positions (in foreign currency relating to the official market plus, vis-a-vis nonresidents, in Belgian francs and Luxembourg francs in Convertible Accounts) to increase beyond specified levels. In addition, a ceiling has been imposed on the net foreign asset positions of Belgian and Luxembourg banks (their net creditor spot positions in foreign currencies on the official m a rk e t ). Banks have also been instructed that their overall foreign currency position relating to the official market (spot and forward combined) should normally be close to balance and should not register a substantial creditor or debtor position. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settle- ments in respect of gold transactions w i th convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may only be made through the free marke t, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or fo re ign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for industrial or hand ic ra ft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who have to make payment through the official market. Transactions in monetary gold are exempt f rom value-added tax in Belgium but not in Luxembourg. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quan t i ta t ive import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 1. The Belgian law of December 20, 1974 concerning the budget proposals for 1974-75 came into force. Among other things, it contained provisions that modified the law of October 6, 1944 which created the IBLC. The principal effect was that the IBLC was given powers to issue manda to ry regulations l im i t ing or pro- h ib i t ing the payment of interest on nonresident-owned deposits and claims; l im i t ing the amount of nonresidents' claims and deposits in Belgian f rancs; prescribing the deposit of certain funds in noninterest-bearing blocked accounts; and imposing by Royal Decree a negative inter- est charge, payable in advance, on certain nonresident- owned funds. In add i t ion, the IBLC was empowered to obtain in fo rma t ion on all foreign assets and liabilities, on a daily basis, f rom banks and all other economic agents. A def in i t ion of residents was also provided. The law related to Belgium only. February 1. The ceilings on bank credit were contin- ued. The growth of commercial banks' short-term 76 export credits ceased to be subject to limitation; since November 1, 1974, their annual growth rate had been restricted to 24 per cent, while banks' medium-term export credits had been unrestricted. February 16. The Belgian Government introduced in the Parliament a bill that would provide for reporting requirements for the sale of firms with total own assets in excess of BF 1 b i l l ion; reporting to the Banking Com- mission would be required for all transactions involving the acquisition by any person of over 10 per cent of the voting rights. (In early 1976 this bill was still under consideration.) February 20. Belgian banks were asked not to encour- age the expansion of Belgian franc deposits in foreign countries. February 28. As announced on December 17, 1974, banks in Luxembourg were required w i th effect f rom this date to submit quarterly reports on the ma tur i ty struc- ture of their claims and liabilities in foreign currencies. April 15. Henceforth, 50 per cent of the total invoice va lue of goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) and payable to a commer- cial bank in Egypt had to be effected in Belgian francs at the National Bank of Belgium. April 30. The binding recommendations of the Na t ional Bank to the Belgian banks providing for ceil- ings on bank credit and m in imum cash reserve require- ments were allowed to expire. April 30. The Luxembourg Banking Commissioner terminated the ceiling on credits in francs granted by Luxembourg banks to Belgian firms and firms established in Belgium. Such credits remained subject to reporting requirements. May 10. For purposes of surveillance only, import licensing requirements were introduced for specified garments ( ta r i ff headings 60.04, 60.05, 61.01, and 61.02). No license was required, however, when the goods originated in, and were consigned f rom, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, or Luxembourg. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Afr ica, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region ( the ACP countries). July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangemen t; accordingly, the BLEU again observed m ax imum margins of 21A per cent for the Franch franc. August 1. Certain procedural changes in the IBLC rules governing payments for imports and exports came into force. August 19. Import licenses were required for addi- tional textile products (v ir tua l ly all items under tariff ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG headings 51.04, 55.08, 56.05, 56.07, 60.02, 60.03, 61.04, 61.09, 62.02, and 62.03). No license was required, how- ever, when the goods originated in, and were consigned from, any member state of the EEC. September 17. The maximum amount of the guarantees that could be granted, for its own account, by the Office National du Ducroire was increased to BF 90 billion. September 25. The Belgian Government announced that it would further ease the conditions for export credits. November 24. The maximum amount of the guaran- tees that could be granted, for its own account, by the Office National du Ducroire was increased to BF 100 billion. November 29. The ceiling on the guarantees that the Office National du Ducroire could grant for the account of the Belgian State was increased to BF 25 billion. December 29. The ceiling on the liabilities (including all endorsements and guarantees) of the Rediscount and Guarantee Institute was increased from BF 42.5 billion to BF 45 billion. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Benin has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of Vio of 1 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill on transfers to countries outside the Union.2 Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Benin's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Benin itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan- cial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capital con- trols, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin, inward direct investment, all invest- ment in foreign countries, and the solicitation of funds in Benin for placement in foreign countries. The Minis- try of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to collect (either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public) any infor- mation necessary to compile the balance of payments iThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are exempt from commissions. 78 statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials, but these are inoperative. Import certificates for liberalized commodities originating in OECD coun- tries other than Japan are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Directorate of External Commerce. Prescription of Currency Benin is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Oper- ations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with Portugal, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank- notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents for credit to the Foreign Accounts in Francs opened for the latter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments 4 All imports originating in or shipped f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe Dahomeenne pour le Developpe- ment de 1'Industrie et du Commerce (SODAIC, later renamed SONIB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and khaki cloth. Certain 3 There are inoperative payments agreements with Egypt and Hungary. *W i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1976, Ordinance No. 76-3 of Janu- ary 9, 1976 extended to Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom the import taxation applicable to goods of EEC origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other agencies, such as the Societe Nationale de Produc- tion Animale (SONAPA ), have an import monopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Cer- tain imports are liberalized when or ig ina t ing in OECD countries other than Japan and only require an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports o r ig ina t ing in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are sub- ject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a French-Beninese Committee, in which both countries have equal status, as provided for by the Eco- nomic Cooperation Agreement with France. (The Committee held no meetings in 1973, 1974, or 1975.) Under this program, a global quota is established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permit- ted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to BENIN Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Oper- ations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a coun- try that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized fore ign bankno tes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of fore ign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by the Operations Account countries; the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travelers checks, etc.) established abroad in their names. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date for payments for exports to foreign countries cannot be later than 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is denominated in a non-Franc Area currency, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the hold- ing, sale, import, export, or trading of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials; this au thor iza t ion is granted by decree issued by the Coun- cil of M in is ters acting on the proposal of the Minister in Charge of Mines a f ter a technical commission has given its opinion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; resident travelers must declare to the customs and within eight days of return surrender to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and for- eign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 they bring in. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Spe- cial controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.5 Foreign direct investments in Benin 6 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquida- tion of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments 5 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 6 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 80 are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Benin has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Com- merce and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus- try, m in ing, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product, and f rom cer- tain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises undertak- ing to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advan- tages. Plan D provides certain benefits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Prior authorization granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Min- ister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semi- precious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Ben in. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun- try require prior authorization by the Minister of Com- merce and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con ta in ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 June 17. SONAPA was given a monopoly over the import and export of livestock. BENIN June 18. The importation of pharmaceutical and veterinary products became a monopoly of the National Pharmacy Bureau (ONP ). June 18. The National Transit and Forwarding Com- pany (SONATRAC) and the Dahomean Maritime Naviga- tion Company (CODANAM, later renamed COBENAM) were given a monopoly over all forwarding operations, under the supervision of the Dahomean Transit and Forwarding Union (Union Dahomeenne de Transit et de Consignation or UDATRAC, later renamed SOTRACOB). June 30. The importation of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and khaki cloth became a monopoly of the state t rad ing corporation, SODAIC; it already had a monopoly over imports of rice, sugar, flour, and milk. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA franc and the French f ranc remained unchanged. September 18. Ordinance No. 75-71 created the Societe Nationale de Papeterie et de Librairie (SONAPAL ). It was given a monopoly over imports of books, stationery, and all school supplies. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0409256 gram of fine gold per Bolivian Peso. A central rate has been established of $b 20 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and Bolivia avails itself of wider margins. For operational purposes, the exchange market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the pri- vate sector. The Central Bank of Bolivia operates in both sectors, buying foreign exchange from the Govern- ment, the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Min- ing Corporation (COM IBOL ), and private export firms, and selling foreign exchange without any restriction to the Banco del Estado, the commercial banks and exchange houses, the Government and its official agen- cies, and —through the banks —to the public. The com- mercial banks and exchange houses purchase exchange accruing to the private sector on account of capital and invisibles, and they cover all foreign exchange require- ments of the private sector. The exchange rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1975 was $b 20.00 buy- ing, and $b 20.02 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax, a 2 per mill stamp tax, and a 1 per mill bank ing commis- sion. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the com- mercial banks and exchange houses on the same date was $b 20.40 per US$1. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements with Hungary and Poland are channeled through special accounts. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; they are not permitted to import commodities also avail- able in Bolivia. Private imports of certain commodities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foodstuffs, and petroleum and petro- leum products. The import of cigarettes, cement, radios, television receivers, and certain other locally produced goods is prohibited. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased freely from commercial banks. Most foreign credits, including officially guaranteed suppliers' credits, are sub- 82 ject to authorization by the National Council for Plan- ning and Economy and to control by the Financing Institute. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 25 per cent ad valorem, which must be lodged 120 days prior to the anticipated release from customs. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to an "additional tax" and to an 8 per cent tax on services rendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. (For profits and dividends on foreign investments, however, see section on Capital, below.) Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighbor- ing countries, $b 60 for overland travel to such countries, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 400 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, although certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds f rom exports of the public and private sec- tors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the M in ing Bank that of the small mines of the pri- vate sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange market. Capital Outward capital t rans fe rs by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made freely; inward capital transfers also may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authorization by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Financing Institute. Most foreign loans must be registered with the National Investment Institute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Investment Law of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are considered subject to Decision 24 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to pur- chase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Supreme Decree No. 8635 of January 9, 1969, without affecting the exist- ing powers of the Central Bank, authorized the Mining Bank to purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked fo rm, the production of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it establishes jointly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requirements of gold from the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other pro- ducers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and den- tists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1975 January 17. Decrees Nos. 12190 through 12193 reduced import duties on many textiles, certain domestic appliances, and certain motor vehicles. Late in 1975, most of these reductions were rescinded. February 7. Supreme Decree No. 12222 exempted certain manufactured and agricultural products from the 15 per cent tax levied on nontraditional exports. March 21. Supreme Decree No. 12315 prohibited the importation of cattle, sheep, and hogs. BOLIVIA April 4. Supreme Decree No. 12344 extended the exemption from the 15 per cent tax on nontraditional exports to virtually all agricultural and manufactured products. April 10. Taxes and royalties on exports of mining products were lowered by 50 per cent for production in excess of specified output levels. May 15. A reciprocal credit agreement with Vene- zuela was signed. May 21. Supreme Decree No. 12509 complemented the Investment Law. Further regulations were issued by Supreme Decree No. 13050 of November 7. August 14. Banks were authorized to accept deposits in foreign currencies on fixed terms and at freely nego- tiable rates of interest up to 9 per cent. In addition, banks were permitted to issue certificates of deposit denominated in domestic currency, with index clauses designed to maintain the value in terms of the U.S. dol- lar (previously available only for Bolivian peso savings deposits). (Decree-Law No. 12766.) October 3. Supreme Decree No. 12914 prohibited for two years the import of 32 items also produced domes- tically. They included radios and television sets. October 5. Most private sector imports became sub- ject to an advance deposit requirement of 25 per cent ad valorem. The deposit was to be lodged 120 days prior to the anticipated release of the goods from customs. With the exception of books, magazines, and periodicals, cattle on the hoof, fish, and certain machinery and spare parts, no merchandise could be released prior to the end of the 120-day period. Goods exempt from deposit were mainly cement, wheat, wheat flour, edible oils, milk products, and Pharmaceuticals. November 14. Decree-Law No. 13072 granted the benefits and guarantees of Decree-Law No. 10045 of December 10, 1971 to all external financing for purposes of working capital obtained for a period not less than three years in the form of loans in convertible currencies. Such borrowings had to be registered in the National Investment Register. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange and Trade System Botswana's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. The South African Reserve Bank on December 31, 1975 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Botswana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. De facto, Botswana also forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange con- trol over transactions in securities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning controls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Botswana applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Botswana's treatment of certain capital transfers may be more liberal. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward transfers of capi- tal are considered on their merits. The rulings on appli- cations for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resi- dent foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calen- dar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring coun- tries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Botswana imports goods direct from countries outside the customs union, such imports are licensed by the Botswana Government, provided that the goods are intended for home consumption in Botswana. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons. Furthermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. Changes during 1975 June 27. It was announced that the South African Reserve Bank was discontinuing the practice of making small and frequent adjustments to its buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars. In future these rates would be kept constant for longer periods at a time and would only be adjusted upward or downward if considered essential in the event of any basic change in domestic or interna- tional economic circumstances. The new policy would be based on a middle rate of R 1 = US$1.40 with the same total spread of l/2 of 1 per cent as before. The Reserve Bank quoted public buying and selling rates of US$1.4035 and US$1.3965 per rand. The previous middle rate had been R 1 = US$1.47. July 1. The Bank of Botswana formally came into being as the country's central bank. September 22. The Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from R 1 = US$1.40 to R 1 = US$1.15. The Reserve Bank's buying and sell- ing rates were adjusted to R 1 = US$1.1529 and R 1 = US$1.1471, respectively. No change was made in the exchange rate policy introduced on June 27. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Central Bank operates in foreign exchange in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, and the Bank of Brazil undertakes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the coun- try. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved trans- actions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 31, 1975, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$9.020 and Cr$9.070 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which for the rates listed above result in effective rates w i th in 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (1) special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); (2) a 10 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribu$ao) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and products except for those in respect of exports of sweetened cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw material, for which the contribution quota is 5 per cent; (3) a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds f rom exports of raw hides of wild animals, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals; and (4) a contribution quota of 40 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of quartz chips. On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below), which speci- fies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large proportion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Petrobras surrenders to the Bank its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain exports of petroleum. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company also are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil. (3) All public sector agencies carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. (4) Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by other banks sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date the transaction is made. Like the other commercial banks the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the require- ments of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. The Central Bank handles all exchange transactions in bilateral currencies and exchange transactions related to imports under U.S. aid (by transferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa). The authorized banks are required to surrender to the Central Bank or to the Bank of Brazil (operating for the account of the Central B a n k ), at the close of each business day, any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 for each branch. The Central Bank and the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supply foreign exchange to autho- rized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (bank- notes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in d ifferent trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In addition, exchange transactions are permitted between banks in Rio de Janeiro and banks in Sao Paulo; such transactions may be carried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. Authorized banks are also permitted to engage in arbitrage among 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL themselves when operating in the same trading center or between establishments in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to maintain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the monetary authorities. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council, chaired by the Minister of Finance, is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, and under the supervision of the Director in charge of Foreign Exchange Operations of the Central Bank, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Operations Department (GECAM) and Department for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FIRCE); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also exercises approval authority over the terms of foreign financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the interministerial For- eign Loans Commission (CEMPEX ). The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), chaired by the Minister of Industry and Commerce and established within his Ministry, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affa irs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exporta$ao and guias de importagao), and verifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifica- tions, and types in import operations. CACEX also is in charge of approving import financing with terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC), which is an autonomous body respon- sible to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and operates within the general guidelines of the National Monetary Council. The Customs Policy Council (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formu- lating guidelines for tariff policy, subject to the legal powers of the National Monetary Council and CONCEX. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the Commit- tee for the Coordination of Foreign Purchasing Policy (CCPCE). the relevant agreement account.1 These accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrange- ments are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agreements providing for settlements through accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars are in force with Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colom- bia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay. Proceeds from exports to Latin American member countries of the Inter-American Development Bank, other than Argentina, Mexico, and Venezuela, may be received in the currency of the importing country. Imports and Import Payments Special arrangements described below apply to imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The import of recreational boats of a value of over US$3,500 and of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited.2 Furthermore, unless as an excep- tion, the prior authorization of the President is obtained, there is a prohibition on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semi- public sector (direct organs of the Government, auton- omous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Furthermore, imports and the leasing or purchase in the domestic market by ministries or agencies controlled by the Fed- eral Government of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin for which satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nacionais) are available are prohibited, except under specified conditions. All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documenta- tion, e.g., samples without commercial value and certain educational material; and (2) imports that require an import certificate. The bulk of imports falls into the second category. The import certificate is issued sub- ject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information CACEX may require. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, they are valid for 90 or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price controls). For a number of specified imports in the second category, the import certificate may be obtained Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agree- ment countries are made in clearing dollars through 1 On February 17, 1976 it was announced that purchases or sales of exchange relating to transactions of any kind under bilateral payments agreements carried out on or after February 23 must be agreed in U.S. dollars; such transactions became exempt from the contracting of specific surrender or cover with the Central Bank (GECAM Communi- cation No. 300). 2 With effect f rom February 6, 1976, imports of a number of nones- sential goods were suspended, through June 30, 1976, except when origi- nating in LAFTA countries (CACEX Communication No. 543). 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution after the disembarkation of the commodity in Brazil, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second category the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,3 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instruments, machinery, and equipment. Most commodities subject to an import certificate are exempt from this require- ment when the value of the import transaction does not exceed US$2,000. All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to commitments under LAFTA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock building purposes; (2) imports are causing or threaten to cause serious damage to the national economy; or (3) imports origi- nate in or are shipped from countries that in any way impede Brazilian exports. With certain exceptions,4 all imports are subject to a compulsory advance deposit requirement equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the imports. The deposits must be lodged before import certificates are collected and are held without interest by the Central Bank for a period of 360 days. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment, without any test for similares nationals, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports of capital goods, intermediate products, raw materials, and other goods and merchandise regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, 3 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment pro- gram incorporating their anticipated import requirements. In Decem- ber 1975 the Government announced that imports of equipment, raw materials, and consumer goods (except petroleum and wheat) by fed- eral ministries in 1976 must be reduced by 25 per cent below their 1975 level. 4 Petroleum, fertilizers, disinfectants, insecticides, herbicides, breeding stock, seeds, antibiotics and other pharmaceutical products, wheat, coal, printing paper, certain books, and aircraft and helicopter parts. The following import categories are also exempt: equipment and compo- nents without similares nationals for petroleum prospecting and pro- duction, and for certain approved scientific and research programs, imports through the Manaus free trade zone, subject to certain condi- tions; imports under drawback arrangements; imports with foreign financing of more than five years of machinery and equipment without similares nationals for the importer's own use or in the form of foreign capital investment registered with FIRCE; and goods imported from LAFTA countries under special concessions. Also exempt are tem- porary imports of equipment; components and parts for maintenance, repair or reconditioning purposes; Brazilian goods returning to the country; and goods imported under export programs approved by the Commission on Fiscal Incentives for Special Export Programs (BEFIEX). BRAZIL must be registered with the Central Bank. Financial terms in respect of external financing for imports of more than one year must be submitted for approval to the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy, before a request can be made for registration with FIRCE. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ruling by CACEX that similares nacionais do not exist and that Brazilian firms are unable to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and of interest thereon, may only be made upon presen- tation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank approving the credit terms. Prior to ship- ment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Furthermore, installments of the financed amount must be distributed to ensure that amortization of the debt is scheduled in proportion to the terms of the financing operation. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping docu- ments are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draft; this may take place 2 working days in advance of the maturity date if the exchange transfer is processed by telegram or telex, or 10 working days in advance if processed by airmail or check. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior clos- ing of an exchange contract (GECAM Communication No. 297). Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. In certain cases, interest at about 0.5 per cent a month is charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Advance payments in amounts up to US$300 for imports of books may be made without prior authorization. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petro- bras concludes for each import transaction an individual foreign exchange contract at the selling rate prevailing on the day of the closing of the exchange contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equivalent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. In establishing the selling rate to be applied to the liquidation of the contract, the selling rate used is that which prevailed ten days prior to the date of the latest fixing of the domestic price of petroleum by the National Petroleum Council (NPC). The difference, 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL if any, between the rate of the contract concluded between Petrobras and the Bank of Brazil and the rate used at the liquidation of that exchange contract is borne by the NPC. Payments by Petrobras against such contracts are made in the following manner: for collec- tions, 100 per cent upon the liquidation of the contract covering the importation, and for letters of credit, 10 per cent when the letter of credit is issued and 90 per cent upon the liquidation of the contract. For some commodities, the application of import duties may be affected by the existence of similares nacionais or the establishment of a m in imum import price (pauta de valor minima) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remit- tances stipulated in that law, limits are placed, by virtue of Normative Act No. 15 of the National Institute of Industrial Property of September 11, 1975, on remit- tances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see be low). Subject to certain conditions authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is subject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: for neighbor- ing countries (1) in banknotes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders for the remainder; and for other countries (1) in banknotes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the remainder. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign resi- dents in transit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; how- ever, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase transaction is registered, and the records of these operations, which must contain the names of clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. Outward remittances in respect of foreign investment in Brazilian securities are governed by special regula- tions (see below). Otherwise, remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign direct investments 88 and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royal- ties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965 which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remit- tances are allowed only when the foreign capital con- cerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trade- marks is subject to the fu rn ish ing of proof that the document has been approved by the National Institute of Industrial Property and complies with its Normative Act No. 15 of September 11, 1975. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accord- ance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (other than capital invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For registered portfolio capital, the sup- plementary income tax is levied if remittances of divi- dends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered investment. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for lux- ury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remit- tances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign prin- cipal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not per- mitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts from the sale or manu- facture of given products for which such payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the max imum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure com- pliance with the requirements of exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are prohibited, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic consumption, and exports of certain other commodities are conditional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or payable in inconvertible currencies, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities, including beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the IBC. The minimum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender, without compensation, a portion of their proceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are transferred to the Coffee Defense Fund. The contribution quotas are set from time to time by the IBC and are fixed in terms of foreign cur- rency; on December 31, 1975 it was US$29.00 a bag for green coffee, US$24.00 a bag for washed coffee, and US$0.19 a pound for decaffeinated green coffee. The contribution quotas are adjusted whenever the exchange rate for the cruzeiro is changed in order to ensure that exporters' returns in cruzeiros, at the minimum registra- tion price, remain unchanged. Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, after de- duction of the contribution quotas, at the prevailing official market rate of exchange. Thus, the exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on (1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars a pound), and (3) the official market rate of exchange. On December 31, 1975, the minimum registration prices, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, were US$0.82 and US$0.84 a pound for green coffee, US$0.84 a pound for washed coffee, and US$0.92 and US$0.94 a pound for decaffeinated green coffee. The correspond- ing cruzeiro payments a bag, after deduction of the contribution quota, were Cr$714.74 and Cr$738.56 for green coffee, Cr$783.66 for washed coffee, and Cr$869.17 and Cr$892.98 for decaffeinated green coffee. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds from coffee exports on sales at the m in imum registration price were Cr$6.603 and Cr$6.661 per US$1 for green coffee, Cr$7.068 per US$1 for washed coffee, and Cr$7.157 and Cr$7.197 per US$1 for decaffeinated green coffee. The exchange rate for coffee exports is higher to the extent that sales are made in excess of the m in imum registration price. Proceeds of exports of spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee are also subject to a con- BRAZIL tribution quota. On December 31, 1975, the minimum registration price for spray-dried soluble coffee was US$1.85 a pound and for freeze-dried soluble coffee US$2.80 a pound. The contribution quota on both types of coffee was US$0.21 a pound. Thus the exchange rates for proceeds from exports of spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee on sales at the minimum registration price were Cr$7.996 and Cr$8.343, respec- tively, per US$1. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, within the limits of the official market, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensa- tion 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improve- ment for cocoa. Furthermore, a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of unprocessed hides of wild animals, 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild ani- mals, and 40 per cent on export proceeds from quartz chips. A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of manufactured commodities. These incen- tives include exemptions from indirect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption from tax liability. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Bank of Brazil and the commercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufacturers. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63 (as amended) or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of CEMPEX is also required for borrowing by the public sector, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institutions abroad for borrowing by the private sector, and when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. External financing for imports must be registered with the Central Bank. Moreover, import financing with credit terms exceeding one year 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL requires the approval of the Central Bank. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be sub- ject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on fore ign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machin- ery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise that does not participate directly in capital risk is con- sidered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manu- fac turer himself or by a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are con- sidered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make port- folio investments in Brazilian commercial and indus- trial securities, provided that transactions are channeled through a Brazilian "investment company" and are effected on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registration with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three years, following which repatriation may be made free of income taxes at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six months. The m in imum participation in portfolio investment com- panies by foreign firms or individuals is US$10,000. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dispro- portionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of com- parable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of 90 financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the avail- ability of similares nationals. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domi- ciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial and investment banks and the National Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of financing working capital. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Investment Law is furnished by FIRCE upon approval of the loan by the Central Bank. Safe- guards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the gen- eral provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior Central Bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63 as well as those under Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of five years but no maximum term is set. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council has since Decem- ber 1971 imposed quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities conform with m in imum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the path approved by the Na t ional Monetary Council. At the end of 1975 the Central Bank's m in imum acceptable maturity stood at five years. However, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for the minimum specified maturity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Reso- lution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on demand deposits, whether held by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by GECAM, which considers applications on their merits. Approved exchange transactions involv- ing outward transfers of private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Gold mining is ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1975)5 BRAZIL alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. SUMOC Instruction No. 27 of December 1948 stipulated that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., then at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. However, this provision was in force un t il December 1962 only, and the monetary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 1 per cent. The mining tax may be offset against the other tax liabilities if and when gold is manufactured. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of pow- der are free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certificate. (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying 5.412 (Official Market Rate less 40% Contribution Quota) Exports of quartz chips. 6.603-6.661 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Mar- ket Rate, Contribution Quota, and Mini- mum Registration Price) 6 Exports of green coffee effected at a price equal to the minimum registration price, for payment at sight. 7.068 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Regis- tration Price) 6 Exports of washed coffee effected at a price equal to the minimum registration price, for payment at sight. 7.157-7.197 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Mar- ket Rate, Contribution Quota, and Mini- mum Registration Price) 6 Exports of green decaffeinated coffee effected at a price equal to the m in imum registration price, for pay- ment at sight. 7.996 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Regis- tration Price)6 Exports of spray-dried soluble coffee. 8.118 (Official Market Rate less 10% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products other than sweetened cocoa powder. Exports of raw hides of wild animals. 8.343 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Regis- tration Price) 6 Exports of freeze-dried soluble coffee. 8.569 (Official Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota) Exports of tanned or processed hides of wild animals. Exports of sweetened cocoa powder. 9.020 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 9.020 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Other proceeds. Selling 9.070 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 9.070 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.7 Capital. 5 Excluding brokerage fees. °The minimum registration price for each type of coffee (in U.S. dollars a pound) varies with the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of shipment. The rates shown make allowance for payment of the contri- bution quota, which on December 31, 1975 was US$29.00 a bag for green coffee, US$24.00 a bag for washed coffee, US$0.19 a pound for decaffeinated green coffee, and US$0.21 a pound for soluble coffee. 7 A d i f fe rent effective rate may apply to remittances of profits and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Changes during 1975 During the course of the year, the buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed as fol- lows: January 28, Cr$7.510 and Cr$7.550 per US$1; February 20, Cr$7.580 and Cr$7.620 per US$1; March 19, Cr$7.695 and Cr$7.735 per US$1; April 11, Cr$7.805 and Cr$7.845 per US$1; May 14, Cr$7.925 and Cr$7.975 per US$1; June 26, Cr$8.020 and Cr$8.070 per US$1; July 8, Cr$8.080 and Cr$8.130 pef US$1; August 5, Cr$8.235 and Cr$8.285 per US$1; September 23, Cr$8.470 and Cr$8.520 per US$1; Octo- ber 27, Cr$8.620 and Cr$8.670 per US$1; November 25, Cr$8.850 and Cr$8.9QO per US$1; and December 16, Cr$9.020 and Cr$9.070 per US$1. January 1. The contribution quota on export pro- ceeds from quartz was increased from 10 per cent to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value (Central Bank Resolu- tion No. 315 of December 31, 1974). January 9. CPA Resolution No. 2331 exempted from import duty, for a period of one year, wood pulp and paperwaste intended for the manufacture of paper. January 9. The con tr ibu t ion quota on export proceeds from sweetened cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as a raw material was reduced from 10 per cent to 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value (Central Bank Resolution No. 316 and GECAM Communication No. 250). January 9. CPA Resolution No. 2329 extended for a fu r ther year the validity of Resolution No. 1992 which exempted certain fertilizers from import duty. January 9. CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 500 revoked Communication Nos. 463, 478, 479, 490, and 492 which had for certain imports reduced the validity of import certificates f rom 180 days to either 90 or 60 days. January 28. IBC Resolution No. 907 established a contribution quota of US$30.54 a bag for exports of green coffee. January 30. CACEX Communication No. 501 estab- lished quotas for the export of quartz chips in 1975. February 1. The guaranteed cruzeiro prices for washed and unwashed coffee came into effect which had been established for shipment f rom February 1 by IBC Resolution No. 895 of October 2, 1974. February 4. IBC Resolution No. 908 established the m in imum registration price for green decaffeinated cof- fee at the level applicable for green coffee plus US$0.10 a pound. The contribution quota for green decaffeinated coffee was reduced to US$0.15 a pound ( f rom US$29.76 to US$19.80 a bag) for exports shipped on or after Janua ry 10; this reduction would rema in in effect for 180 days. February 5. CPA Resolution No. 2352 exempted from import duty, for one year, a quota of 8,000 tons of aluminum waste and scrap when intended for use of manufac turers of aluminum and secondary alloys. February 5. CPA Resolution No. 2354 exempted from export duty for one year a quota of 30,000 tons 92 of aluminum oxide when imported for the use of pro- ducers of primary a lum inum. February 17. IBC Resolution No. 910 established contribution quotas of US$31.00 a bag and US$0.155 a pound for exports of green coffee and decaffeinated green coffee, respectively. February 25. CACEX Communication No. 502 regu- lated exports of the 1975 soybean crop and its by-prod- ucts (bran, cake, and o i l ). Such exports continued to require the prior approval of CACEX; exports of soybean oil were furthermore made subject to a ceiling of 10 per cent of domestic production. February 25. CACEX Communication No. 503 regu- lated 1975 timber exports. Quotas were established for exports of milled pinewood and sawn cinnamon and imbuia wood. February 28. Most imports bearing customs duty of 37 per cent or more became subject to the requirement of cash payment on sight which previously applied to goods subject to duty at a rate of 55 per cent or more. In addition, a large number of other import items became subject to the cash payment requirement, irre- spective of the rate of customs duty. Included among goods exempt from the requirement were specified types of industrial and agricultural machinery, goods imported on the basis of drawback, and imports effected with medium-term or long-term external financing or as a foreign investment registered with the Central Bank. Also exempt were imports in to the free trade zone of Manaus (Central Bank Resolution No. 319 and GECAM Commun ica t ion No. 255). March 18. CPA Resolution No. 2370 reduced the import du ty on tires and inner tubes of certain sizes from 85 per cent to zero until December 31, 1975. March 19. IBC Resolution No. 916 established contri- bution quotas of US$31.68 a bag and US$0.1628 a pound for exports of green coffee and decaffeinated green coffee, respectively. March 19. CONCEX Resolution No. 98 made the granting of import licenses for steel products dependent un t il December 31, 1975 upon the prior approval of the Conselho de Nao-Ferrosos e Siderurgia (CONSIDER). Imports made under drawback arrangements were not affected. April 8. IBC Resolution No. 918 established mini- mum registration prices for exports of green coffee for the period April 9-June 30, and for exports of soluble coffee for shipments for the period September 1-30. April 11. IBC Resolution No. 919 established a contri- bution quota of US$32.31 a bag for exports of green coffee. April 25. IBC Resolution No. 920 established contri- bution quotas of US$32.31 a bag and US$0.1701 a pound for exports of green coffee and decaffeinated green coffee, respectively. April 29. Decree No. 75677 provided that until December 31, 1975 applications by government depart- ments and federal agencies for import licenses for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution machinery, equipment, and raw materials submitted to CACEX must be accompanied by the written approval of the minister concerned, and that CACEX authorization for these imports must be obtained before shipment of the goods. Similar provisions were applicable to imports by state governments and state agencies. The Decree maintained the requirement that each ministry present a monthly report of authorized imports to the President. April 30. CPA Resolution No. 2439 gave exemption from import duty to raw, waste, and scrap aluminum when the importer could prove to CACEX that he had bought domestically produced a lum inum in the propor- tion of 1.4 tons for every ton imported. May 7 and May 8. Decree-Law No. 1401 of May 7 and Central Bank Resolution No. 323 of May 8 per- mitted inward portfolio investment, through the coun- try's stock exchanges, in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities by persons resident or domiciled abroad. Such capital had to be channeled through "investment companies" based in Brazil, and remain in the country for at least three years, following which repatriation could be made —free of income taxes—at an average rate of up to 20 per cent every six months. Income tax payable on cash dividends or bonuses distrib- uted to shareholders residing or payable abroad would be at the rate of 15 per cent; the rate of tax would fall to 12 per cent if the investment was held in Brazil for more than six years and to 8 per cent if held for more than eight years. The tax payable on capital gains would be at a rate of 25 per cent. The supplementary with- holding tax applicable to remittances abroad of capital gains, dividends and cash bonuses, net of income tax, would be levied at rates ranging from 40 per cent to 60 per cent depending on the extent to which such remit- tances exceeded, in each fiscal year, 12 per cent of the value of the initial investment registered in foreign cur- rency. Investments held longer than eight years would be exempt from the supplementary withholding tax. Invest- ment companies authorized by the Central Bank to invest foreign capital in the stock markets would not be allowed to control more than 10 per cent of any company's voting stock, or to invest more than 10 per cent of their funds in any one company, and an invest- ment company's average investment per firm could not exceed 5 per cent of the investment company's total investments. The m in imum participation in investment companies by a nonresident individual or corporation would be US$10,000 or its equivalent. The investment companies had to invest at least 50 per cent of the funds received f rom nonresident investors in Brazilian "open capital corporations"; no investment in public sector corporations, in banking shares, in other financial securi- ties, or in real estate was permitted. May 12. CACEX Communication No. 509 regulated the granting of import certificates for machinery, equip- ment, raw materials, and other goods on behalf of government departments and federal agencies, states, and municipalities and other public sector organizations. BRAZIL May 13. IBC Resolution No. 923 established contri- bution quotas of US$32.98 a bag and US$0.1778 a pound for exports of green coffee and decaffeinated green coffee, respectively. May 15. CPA Resolution No. 2458 reduced the import duty from 30 per cent to 5 per cent for a quota of 11,600 tons of lead scrap and waste. May 23. Decree-Law 1403 exempted from import duties and the manufactured goods tax (IPI) materials and equipment imported during 1975-79 for the Brazil- ian shipbuilding program. June 5. A new bilateral payments agreement was signed with Romania to replace the existing agreement. (At the end of 1975 the new agreement had not yet come into force.) June 6. CACEX Communication No. 510 further consolidated regulations and procedures for imports. Communication No. 500 of January 9, 1975 was revoked. June 9. A new bilateral payments agreement with Greece was signed to replace the existing agreement. (At the end of 1975 the new agreement had not yet come into force.) June 20. IBC Resolution No. 929 established mini- mum registration prices for exports of green coffee for the period to September 30, established a contribution quota of US$20.00 a bag for exports of green coffee, and fixed a separate contribution quota of US$15.00 a bag for exports of washed coffee. June 20. IBC Resolution No. 930 established the contribution quota for exports of decaffeinated green coffee at US$0.11 a pound. June 23. IBC Resolution No. 924 established contri- bution quotas of US$20.00 a bag and US$15.00 a bag for exports of green coffee and washed coffee, respec- tively. June 25. IBC Resolution No. 931 established contri- bution quotas of US$20.53 a bag, US$0.1156 a pound, and US$15.60 a bag for exports of green coffee, decaf- feinated green coffee, and washed coffee, respectively. July 4. IBC Resolution No. 932 eliminated the sys- tem of monthly individual quotas for exports of soluble coffee to the United States, Canada, and the EEC. It also abolished a contribution quota of US$0.05 a pound on exports of spray-dried soluble coffee. July 7. IBC Resolution No. 933 established contri- bu t ion quotas of US$20.86 a bag, US$0.1190 a pound, and US$15.97 a bag for exports of green coffee, decaf- fe ina ted green coffee, and washed coffee, respectively. July 16. Central Bank Resolution No. 331 and GECAM Communication No. 265 established a system of advance import deposit requirements for certain imports, whether imported by the public sector or the private sector. Under the new regulations, deposits equivalent to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of imports carrying a cus- toms duty of 37 per cent or more, must be made with the Central Bank before the import certificate could be issued. The deposits would be held without interest for 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL six months. Certain goods subject to a duty of less than 37 per cent were also affected. Exempted from the deposit were imports made under the drawback system; imports with foreign financing of at least 360 days or made as a registered foreign investment; pharmaceuti- cals, insecticides, oilseeds, raw materials, and other products either not produced in Brazil or produced in insufficient quantities to satisfy domestic consumption; and imports into the free port of Manaus. The deposit was to be made in domestic currency at the exchange rate of the day the import license is issued. Resolutions Nos. 319 of February 26, 1975 and 325 of June 5, 1975 were revoked, thereby terminating the requirement of cash payment for imports specified in these Resolutions. July 16. GECAM Communication No. 266 allowed interest on suppliers' credit to be paid on drafts maturing in 360 days or less. July 24. Central Bank Resolution No. 333 established that imports under export programs approved by BEFIEX were not subject to prior deposits under the terms of Resolution No. 331. July 27. CACEX Communication No. 515 required an import certificate for imports of spare parts valued at less than US$5,000. This measure was revoked by CACEX Communication No. 534 of December 2. July 30. Decree 76055 revised the drawback provi- sions for imports. July 31. The IBC lifted the two-week suspension of coffee exports introduced for determining the extent of the frost damage to coffee trees. In various resolutions the IBC announced sharp increases in the minimum registration prices (of about 50-60 per cent for green coffee and 30-40 per cent for soluble coffee) and in the guaranteed prices to producers (of 40 per cen t ), and terminated the policy of granting substantial discounts to its larger customers. July 31. IBC Resolution No. 938 established a contri- bution quota of US$0.1210 a pound for exports of decaf- feinated green coffee. August 1. IBC Resolution No. 939 established contri- bution quotas of US$22.43 a bag, US$0.1356 a pound, and US$17.66 a bag for exports of green coffee, decaf- feinated green coffee, and washed coffee, respectively. August 5. IBC Resolution No. 941 reintroduced the contribution quota on export proceeds from spray-dried soluble coffee and introduced a new contribution quota on proceeds from exports of freeze-dried soluble coffee. Both contribution quotas were set at US$0.08 a pound. August 5. Decree No. 76084 provided for the imposi- tion of import restrictions on products originating in any country that in any way impeded Brazilian exports. The Decree authorized the Finance Ministry to suspend tariff concessions already granted, to apply tariff sur- charges of up to 100 percentage points, or to impose other restrictions on the importation of merchandise from countries that in any way restricted Brazilian exports to their markets. August 5. Central Bank Resolution No. 334 revoked 94 Resolution No. 305 of October 24, 1974 which reduced temporarily (from 25 per cent to 5 per cent) the withholding tax payable on interest, commissions, and expenses arising from registered foreign currency loans. The m in imum term of these loans was maintained at five years. August 5. Foreign financial credits and import financ- ing subject to a m in imum maturity of five years were made eligible for a tax credit of 85 per cent of the 25 per cent withholding tax on remittances of interest, commissions, or other expenses arising from such loans and credits (Central Bank Resolution No. 335). August 6. Order No. 296 of the Ministry of Finance regulated the processing and signature of foreign loans with the guarantee of the Federal Government. August 13. Central Bank Resolution No. 336 permit- ted importers of capital goods, raw materials, inter- mediate goods, and other merchandise to apply for medium-term and long-term financing abroad, and thus avoid (in accordance with Resolution No. 331) the 100 per cent prior import deposit. It also required the prior approval of CACEX for all such import contracts. August 22. IBC Resolution No. 942 established contri- bu t ion quotas of US$23.19 a bag, US$0.1406 a pound, US$18.48 a bag, and US$0.10 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed coffee, and soluble coffee, respectively. August 25. CACEX was authorized to levy a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the value of import certificates, with certain exceptions. The charge would be payable on issue of the documents (Decree-Law 1416). August 25. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed to Cr$8.310 and Cr$8.360 per US$1, respectively. September 3. Decree-Law No. 1418 introduced the following new incentives for exports: (1) Companies exporting services and locally owned concerns engaging in operations on foreign commodity exchanges could deduct from profits liable to income tax the foreign exchange earnings arising f rom these transactions. (2) Sales in the domestic market to locally owned engineering concerns of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and instruments, together with parts and components of local manu fac tu re, to be exported by them for use in projects contracted abroad would be eligible for tax incentives and credit facilities provided for exports. These goods could remain abroad for use in other projects for which the concern had been awarded a contract, or could be leased, lent, sold, or donated upon conclusion of the project; if returned to Brazil, they would become liable to import duties. Subject to the authorization of CACEX, other new and used machinery and equipment, vehicles, and instruments could be temporarily exported for the execution of projects abroad by companies that obtained contracts for these projects; these could also be sold, leased, lent, or donated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL October 21. CACEX Communication No. 523 pro- vided a revised listing of the cases in which imports must be shipped on Brazilian-flag vessels. Among other things, the regulation extended this requirement to imports receiving exemptions from or reductions of cus- toms duties because no similares nacionais exist, or because the import transaction is covered either by a multilateral or bilateral tariff agreement or by Article 4 of Law No. 3244 of August 14, 1957 (as amended by Decree-Law No. 63 of November 21, 1966). Exemp- tions from the requirement could be granted by the Superintendency of Maritime Shipping (SUNAMAM ). October 22. CACEX Communication No. 525 extended the list of products that could benefit from the special line of refinancing made available under Central Bank Resolution No. 71 of November 1, 1967 to provide support for the production of manufactured goods for export. CACEX Communication No. 340 was revoked. October 23. Decree-Law No. 1423 extended the period of application of tax and credit incentives for exports of manufactured products. October 24. IBC Resolution No. 950 established con- tribution quotas of US$26.00 a bag, US$0.1600 a pound, US$21.00 a bag, and US$0.1600 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed cof- fee, and soluble coffee, respectively. November 6. A new bilateral payments agreement was signed with the German Democratic Republic to replace the existing agreement. (At the end of the year the new agreement had not yet come into force.) November 12. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$8.725 and Cr$8.775 per US$1, respectively. November 12. IBC Resolution No. 955 established contribution quotas of US$27.00 a bag, US$0.17 a pound, US$22.00 a bag, and US$0.17 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed coffee, and soluble coffee, respectively. November 13. Proceeds from foreign financial loans received by commercial banks and investment banks and held on deposit with the Central Bank pending relending to Brazilian customers could receive interest of up to abroad. In both cases, foreign exchange earnings arising out of the lease or sale could be deducted from profits liable to income tax. (3) The Minister of Finance was empowered to authorize, with suspension of taxes, imports by locally owned engineering concerns for the execution of pro- jects abroad of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and instruments, together with components and parts that could not satisfactorily be manufactured in Brazil. (4) The Minister was also authorized to provide the guarantee of the Federal Government for insurance to cover concerns exporting capital goods and services or executing projects abroad against risks in respect of nonfu lf i l lment of contractual obligations. September 4. It was announced that LAFTA coun- tries had been exempted from the ban imposed in November 1974 on the import of consumer goods by government bodies. September 11. The National Institute of Industrial Property issued Normative Act No. 15 regarding the use of patents, trademarks, and industrial technology, as well as the related payments. September 23. IBC Resolution No. 947 established contribution quotas of US$24.80 a bag, US$0.1555 a pound, US$20.21 a bag, and US$0.1412 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed coffee, and soluble coffee, respectively. October 9. The President announced that a number of measures would be introduced to restore economic stability and improve the balance of payments. These included a 15 per cent reduction in public sector im- ports in 1976; directives to the public sector to accord preference to national products; an increase in import duties on a wide range of products (by 100 per cent on "superfluous" products and by 30 per cent on "less essential" goods); and an expansion of export financing facilities at low rates of interest. In addition, foreign companies would be permitted to engage in exploration for oil in Brazil under risk contracts to be negotiated with Petrobras. October 9. Decree No. 76406 limited, dur ing 1976, imports, leasing, or purchases in the domestic market by ministries and other agencies controlled by the Federal Government of raw materials, equipment, and other goods and services. October 9. Decree No. 76407 prohibited imports, leasing, and purchases in the domestic market by min- istries or agencies controlled by the Federal Govern- ment of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin for which similares nacionais exist, except under specified conditions. October 9. Decree-Law No. 1421 increased import duties on some 2,000 items. Duty increases of 100 per- centage points and 30 percentage points were applied to specified luxury and intermediate products, respectively. Goods originating in LAFTA countries and items bound under the GATT were not affected. The maxi- mum rate of duty in force remained at 205 per cent. BRAZIL pound, US$23.00 a bag, and US$0.19 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed coffee, and soluble coffee, respectively. December 2. Decree-Law No. 1426 established the conditions whereby tax credits accruing to exporters in respect of the tax on the circulation of goods (the ICM tax) could be deducted f rom the amount of tax on industrialized products ( the IPI tax) owing in respect of operations in the domestic market. The Minister of Finance was authorized to establish other means by which these tax credits could be applied, inc lud ing the use of compensation or offsetting arrangements. December 2. Decree-Law No. 1427 increased, from 180 to 360 days, the retention period for which deposits must be held with the Central Bank under the import deposit scheme established in July. In addition, a system of obligatory registration with CACEX was established for all importers and henceforth imports could be effected only by registered firms or persons. Further- more, the Minister of Finance was empowered, on a temporary basis, in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to commitments under LAFTA, to authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports were for speculative stock bu i ld ing pur- poses; (2) imports were causing or threatened to cause serious damage to the national economy; and (3) im- ports originated in or were shipped f rom countries that d iscr im ina ted against Brazilian exports. December 2. Central Bank Resolution No. 354 and GECAM Communication No. 287 regulated Decree-Law No. 1427 and extended the coverage of the import deposit scheme to all goods except petroleum, fertilizers, d is infec tan ts, insecticides, herbicides, breeding stock, oil seeds, antibiotics and other pharmaceutical products, wheat, coal, pr in t ing paper, certain books, and a i rc ra ft and helicopter parts. The following import categories were also exempted: equipment and components with- out similares nacionais for petroleum prospecting and production, and for certain approved scientific and research programs, imports through the Manaus free trade zone, subject to certain conditions; imports under drawback arrangements; imports with foreign financing of more than five years of machinery and equipment without similares nacionais for the importer's own use or in the form of foreign capital investment registered with FIRCE; and goods imported from LAFTA coun- tries under special concessions. Also exempt were tem- porary imports of equipment; components and parts for maintenance, repair, or reconditioning purposes; Brazilian goods returning to the country; and goods imported under export programs approved by BEFIEX. Central Bank Resolutions Nos. 331 of July 16, 1975 and 333 of July 24, 1975 were revoked. December 2. Under Decree-Law No. 1428 the grant- ing of tax benefits in respect of customs duties and the tax on industrialized products (the IPI tax) could be made by governmental authority only in respect of 96 imports destined for use in projects of exceptional national interest approved by the President of the Repub- lic. In addition, the Minister of Finance was authorized to suspend the application of these benefits when the imports to which they apply originate in countries that prohibit, restrict, or impede Brazilian exports. The availability of tax, exchange, and credit incentives for locally manufactured goods would be subject to indices of the content of nationally produced components. The Decree furthermore established incentives in respect of the IPI tax for the domestic machinery and equipment industry, with the objective of increasing its competi- tiveness with imported products; tax credits of up to 15 per cent of sales of capital goods on the domestic market could be granted to Brazilian manufacturers. In add i t ion, export programs approved by BEFIEX would receive tax incentives only if annual exports exceeded annual imports. December 2. Central Bank Resolution No. 352 and GECAM Communication No. 286 established through CACEX a new line of credit to refinance exports of capi- tal goods and consumer durables with monies from the Fund for the Financing of Exports (F INEX ). These credits would be made available through commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange and also through investment banks. December 2. Central Bank Resolution No. 355 and FIRCE Communication No. 25 established new proce- dures for foreign financing for imports at more than 360 days. Payments of the amount financed, and inter- est thereon, could only be made upon presentation of a certificate of authorization issued by the Central Bank approving the credit terms. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount could not exceed 20 per cent of the import. Furthermore, installments of the financed amount must be distributed so as to ensure that at any time in the l i fe of the debt the proportion between the total amount already amortized and the amount of the financing would not exceed the proportion existing between the term already elapsed and the total term of the operation. December 2. GECAM Communication No. 290 revised arrangements for personal remittances abroad. Autho- rized banks continued to have authority to effect such remittances of up to US$300 a mon th without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided ( 1) the remitter was a registered customer of the bank selling foreign exchange and had held a current account with that bank for more than six months; and (2) the relevant payment order was debited to the customer's current account for the equivalent amount in cruzeiros. Remittances falling outside the provisions of these regulations required the authorization of the Central Bank. December 2. Exchange contracts for import payments in the fo rm of sight or term drafts could be concluded only upon ( 1) submission of the documents relating to shipment of the merchandise; and (2) for sight settle- ment, on ma tur i ty of the d ra f t. This could take place ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution two working days in advance of the maturity date if the exchange transfer was processed by telegram or telex, or ten working days in advance if processed by air- mail or check (GECAM Communication No. 289). December 2. The sale by authorized dealers of checks in foreign currency was suspended in the following cases: (1) transfers to foreign countries in respect of personal remittances (see GECAM Communication No. 290, above); (2) payments for imports originating in or shipped from countries bordering Brazil; and (3) pay- ment orders on foreign countries, when issued in con- nection with the sale of exchange to travelers. Regula- tions relating to the sale of travelers checks were not affected (GECAM Communication No. 291). December 2. CPA Resolutions Nos. 2631, 2632, 2633, and 2634 revoked import duty suspensions and reduc- tions for a number of import items. December 2. The public sector was directed to reduce imports in 1976 to 75 per cent of 1975 imports and to reduce its gasoline consumption in 1976 to 80 per cent of the 1975 level. Ministers in charge of executive departments were prohibited from delegating the power to approve imports by or on behalf of their ministries. Imports of nonferrous metals became subject to the prior approval of CONSIDER, and imports of computers to that of the Comissao de Coordena?ao das Atividades de Processamento Eletronico (CAPRE ). December 2. The exemption from import duty and the IPI tax on raw materials for the petrochemical industry was suspended until December 31, 1976. December 8. CACEX Communication No. 534 fu r ther consolidated regulations and procedures for imports. Communications Nos. 510, 515, 519, 521, 523, and 524 were revoked. December 10. GECAM Communication No. 292 ex- empted from the 100 per cent import deposit require- BRAZIL ment imports of raw materials intended for the manu- facture of fertilizers and agricultural pesticides. December 16. IBC Resolution No. 959 established contribution quotas of US$29.00 a bag, US$0.19 a pound, US$24.00 a bag, and US$0.21 a pound for exports of green coffee, decaffeinated green coffee, washed coffee, and soluble coffee, respectively. December 19. The IBC undertook to offer its coffee on similar terms in all nine EEC countries. Previously, buyers in France and Italy were barred from reselling green coffee. December 19. CACEX Communication No. 536 ex- tended until December 31, 1976 the provisions of CACEX Communication No. 509 of May 12, 1975 concerning the gran t ing of import certificates for machinery, equip- ment, raw materials, and other goods on behalf of government departments, federal agencies, states and municipalities, and other public sector organizations. December 26. CACEX Communication No. 537 speci- fied the procedures to be followed, in terms of Central Bank Resolution No. 355 and FIRCE Communication No. 25 of December 2, 1975, in connection with imports covered by foreign financing at terms of more than 360 days. December 31. IBC Resolution No. 960 established contribution quotas of US$29.00 a bag for exports of green and washed coffee and US$0.20 a pound for decaffeinated green coffee, for exchange contracts closed after December 31, 1975. (On January 22, 1976 the IBC announced that the contribution quotas had been frozen at these levels and would no longer be adjusted when changes were made in the cruzeiro parity.) December 31. IBC Resolution No. 961 established a contribution quota of US$0.15 a pound for exports of soluble coffee for exchange contracts closed a f ter December 31, 1975. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 37, 7975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat. The central rate is K 7.74289 = SDR 1, and Burma avails itself of wider margins. On Decem- ber 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, were K 6.6116 and K 6.7438, respectively, per U.S. dollar. The Bank's buying and selling rates for sterling on the same date were K 13.3640 and K 13.6312, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance, through the Exchange Control Department of the Union of Burma Bank. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange to the public sector. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC or Trade Corporation No. 22 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are determined by the Cen- tral Trade Council. Government agencies and depart- ments make imports of goods for their own use, includ- ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most payments for imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Union of Burma Bank, and certain settlements with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that coun- try. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in con- vertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annually as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All imports f rom Rho- desia and South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source— principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, play- ing cards, and gold and silver bullion. Imports of consumer goods are severely restricted. Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five 98 Star Line whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Union of Burma Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w i fe is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Burma. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Gov- ernment as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citi- zenship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes or U.S. dollar notes. At present, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign cur- rency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports which comprises iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin the conservation of which is desired for domestic require- ments. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities; the exchange must be surrendered to the Union of Burma Bank within six months from the date of ship- ment. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Line or on vessels nominated by it. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may br ing in, subject to dec lara t ion, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who in tend to stay for more than six mon ths must surrender all foreign exchange in the ir possession unless special per- mission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Bu rma are governed by the provisions of the Un ion of Bu rma Inves tment Ac t, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under au tho r i ty of the Act. Inves tment proposals are to be considered by an Investment Comm i t tee to ascer- tain whether the proposed enterprise w i ll u t i l ize domes t ic raw materials, increase domestic emp loymen t, conserve foreign exchange, and generally con fo rm to the eco- nomic plans of the Governmen t. No pr iva te invest- ments have been made under the Act; since February 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of na t iona l iza t ion, permission has not been granted for any foreign private inves tment in Bu rma. The investment law provides for the t r an s f er abroad of profits a f t er taxes and for the w i thd rawal of impor ted capital at any t ime a f ter five years f rom the t ime of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds f rom the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be trans- ferred abroad. All such t rans fe rs may, subject to prior approval, be made at the off ic ial rate of exchange pre- vailing at the time of the transaction. However, trans- fers of capital proceeds f rom the vo lun t a ry l iqu ida t ion of foreign companies were suspended in Ju ly 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to rem it f u n ds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of fam i ly remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may BURMA remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the t ran s fer abroad of paymen ts in favor of non- residents is not permitted, the au thor i t ies can allow such paymen ts to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The impor t, export, and transfer of securi- ties invo lv ing nonres ident interests require ind iv idual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unwo rked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Bu rm a. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought in to Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of a r r iv a l. The export of personal jewe lry is permitted und er license, subject to the cond i t ion that the jewelry w i ll be repatriated. No conditions are attached, how- ever, to the t ak ing out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Bu rma. Changes during 1975 January 25. The cen t ral rate was changed f rom K4 .8138 per US$1 to K 7.74289 per SDR 1. Bu rma con t inued to avail itself of w ider margins. The selling rate for the U.S. dollar was changed on that date f rom K 4.8138 to K 6.2391. November 12. A new b ank ing law was enacted; it came in to force on the same day. The law provided for four separate banks: the Un ion of Burma Bank, which was to fun c t ion as the central bank; the Myanma Eco- nom ic Bank, wh ich was to act as a savings and commer- cial bank; the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, which was to hand le all fore ign exchange transactions and super- vise the country's fore ign exchange income and expendi- ture; and the Myanma Agricultural Bank. Previously, the Un ion of Bu rma Bank was the only bank and the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System x The par value is 0.00935443 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc. The parity for the U.S. dollar is FBu 78.7501 = US$1, and Burundi avails itself of wider margins. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are fixed at FBu 78.35 buying, and FBu 79.15 selling, per US$1. The Bank quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other specified currencies 2 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Belgian f ranc and the official market rates for the currencies concerned in Brussels, or, for the Kenya shilling, the Rwanda franc, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the zai're, on their official parities. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank; they may agree rates freely with their customers for Uganda shillings. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Zaire are effected through special accounts. With this exception, outgoing payments may be made in any currency, while receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the central bank, by (1) physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not consid- ered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi 1 With effect from May 3, 1976 Burundi established a central rate of FBu 90.00 = US$1. Burundi continued to avail itself of wider margins. 2 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Kenya shillings, Ne ther lands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and za'ires. 100 francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bank- notes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be over- drawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued at FBu 20,000 or less require licenses; these are generally issued freely, except for certain used clothing, but importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are also produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a form entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. They must also be submitted to the Ministry of Economy. The approval of such an applica- tion constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the author- ized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of 12 months starting at the end of the month following that of valida- tion (6 months for goods shipped from neighboring countries); in special cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration of the license must be entered on the customs clearance form, the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Sugar, salt, and matches are imported either by public sector agencies or are reserved for Burundi nationals. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required from private sector importers for certain luxury goods. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license is validated; it is released when the import payment is made. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For certain prime neces- sities, however, documentary credits may be opened for which exchange is supplied immed ia te ly. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with brokers or insurers established in Bu rund i. Upon proof of payment of taxes, t rans fe rs of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted at rates ranging f rom 18 per cent up to 60 per cent of the net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profession, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an ind iv idual or a partnership. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer 50 per cent of net distributed profits to their foreign nonresident stockholders or to stockholders who are resident foreign nationals (to the latter, a f ter pay- ment of all taxes ); however, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of fu ll transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Bu rundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi f rancs that consist of unrem i t ted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Trans- fer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners of foreign nationality is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for ma in tenance expenses); resident owners of foreign na t iona l i ty may rem it the same proportion of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase any amount of exchange needed for foreign travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Bu rundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declara- tion entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certi- fication by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for cotton, which may be certified by authorized banks; for coffee exports, the central bank's visa is dependent on the prior advice of BURUNDI the Coffee Committee. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days a f ter the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days from their collection. V ir tua l ly all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufac- tured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw mate- rials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may b r ing in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fulfills specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions f rom import duties and f rom taxes on income from the invest- ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or sus- pended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, dur ing a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, pri- ority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee f rom the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, com- panies unde r tak ing investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic develop- ment may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Invest- ment Commission under the Secretariat of the Presi- dency is charged with exam in ing requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authori- zation, as does foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in any of the currencies quoted by the central bank by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guaran- tee provides for the transfer of the original amount sur- rendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank, since all private dealing in gold is pro- hibited. The central bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at FBu 300 a gram. After refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1975 February 13. The ban on trade with Portugal and South Africa was revoked by Ordinance No. 510/27. March 28. Importers were instructed to refrain from ordering abroad commodities that were also produced locally or of which adequate stocks existed. The goods affected included cement, cereals, and corrugated iron. November 4. The tariff preferences for goods origi- nating in EEC countries were abolished. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for cur- rencies of countries outside the French Franc Area are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Came- roon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence all payments to these countries may be made freely. All countries, except Cameroon itself, are considered foreign countries. All financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for sta- tistical purposes. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub- Directorate of Credit and External Finance of the Directorate of Economic Controls and the National Lottery in the Ministry of Finance, which also super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Planning. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Set- 1The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed direct to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importation), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses for these are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents have been submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allo- cation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited in principle to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally lim- 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON ited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on family status, the transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in one month of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BE AC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 50,000 or more. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be collected within 30 days of the date of arrival at their destination, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month af ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emi- grants to countries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained 104 over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. The provisions of Decree No. 677DF/365, which introduced these special controls, have been suspended insofar as they are contrary to Decree No. 74/249, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be depos- ited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad 2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign direct investment in Cameroon 3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt f rom authorization, however, 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these per- sons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions CAMEROON for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. A decree of August 30, 1973 provides that at least one third of the share capital of each banking or insurance institution should be held by the public sector and that its headquarters should be in Cameroon. This decree also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to indus- trial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which author- izes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus- trial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 April 1. All imports from France and the Operations Account countries became subject to license and domi- ciliation. Exports to these countries became subject to domiciliation only. The repatriation obligation for export proceeds was extended also to proceeds from exports to France and the Operations Account countries. June 17. Import taxes on rice were reinstated. Imports of sugar were freed from the equalization tax. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. December 11. Cameroon signed an agreement with France providing for a loan of CFAF 5 billion to be issued on the French capital market. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Dollar. Since May 31, 1970, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within margins. The closing free mar- ket rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 was Can$1.016 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restric- tions on foreign payments other than certain restrictions on payments to Rhodesia. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. In implementation of UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968, payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for certain drugs, a few agricultural items, certain textile products, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some of the agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are gen- erally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are generally prohibited; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, second- hand aircraft, certain periodicals, and goods of Rho- desian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. This includes the export of crude petroleum, certain petroleum prod- ucts, and natural gas, most of which is sold to the United States. For security reasons, the export of cer- tain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, North Viet-Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are sub- ject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical supplies, news material, educational equipment and materials for use in educational institutions, and books, magazines, and periodicals. 106 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. However, travelers may not take out any Canadian silver coins minted in or prior to 1968. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Inward direct investment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. It stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canadian business enter- prise by persons other than Canadians, or the establish- ment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada, will be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed take-overs and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act of 1948, any mines receiv- ing subsidies are required to sell their newly mined gold to the Royal Canadian Mint at the official price of SDR 35 a fine ounce. No such sales have taken place since 1971. Unsubsidized mines sell their output on the free market. Exports of gold are subject to the follow- ing conditions: (1) exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, North Viet- Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are included among those exports subject to control and require a license from the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold of U.S. origin may only be re-exported from Canada when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act; and (3) move- ments of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quan- tities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1975 January 1. Exports of crude petroleum to the United States began to be curtailed, as announced on Novem- ber 22, 1974, when it was stated that they would be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution phased out by the end of 1983. (Dur ing the year, the export taxes on crude petroleum and on petroleum products were modified on a number of occasions.) January 1. For a period of 60 days, direct and indi- rect imports of nylon woven fabrics originating in the Republic of Korea were restricted to a specified quantity. January 1. The 1971 global quota measures regarding imports of woven and knitted shirts were extended to the end of November, when they were fu r ther extended. January 16. Restrictions on exports of scrap of iron and steel were lifted but export permits continued to be required. January 29. The Minister of Finance stated that petro- dollar investments in Canada enjoyed the same status as investments from other sources. However, the Govern- ment hoped that petro-dollar investments would not be of a scale which would upset exchange markets. The Federal Government did not intend borrowing in the petro-dollar market but other governments and private institutions were free to do so. February 27. The Minister of Finance withdrew his 1970 request that Canadian borrowers carefully explore the potentialities of the Canadian market before offer ing securities for sale abroad. February 27. The Minister of Finance extended for three years the exemption from withholding tax for interest on federal, provincial, and municipal bonds sold abroad. March 1. Import permits were required for certain cotton yarns originating in any of 17 specified countries. April 26. Guidelines regarding corporate reorganiza- tions were issued under Part I of the Foreign Invest- ment Review Act. May 5. It was announced that quotas would be imposed on imports of men's fine suits f rom the Repub- lic of Korea, and that the following would be included on the import control list: fine suits originating in the Republic of China, Hong Kong, Hungary, Romania, and Poland; certain acrylic yarn and certain kn it fabrics, irrespective of origin; and nylon filament fabrics origi- nating in the Republic of China. May 6. A clarification was issued regarding the guidelines for the application of Part I of the Foreign Investment Review Act to take-overs involving real estate transactions. May 29. Canada renewed for one year its adherence to the OECD trade pledge. June 7. A global quota of 50 million pounds was introduced for imports of all types of cheese from any country except Rhodesia. In contrast to the previous import controls, the quota made no distinction as to variety or end-use. CANADA June 24. The 15 per cent withholding tax on interest payments to nonresidents was removed for certain cor- porate securities with a maturity of five years or more issued between parties dealing at arm's length between June 1975 and the end of 1978. July 5. A global quota was introduced for imports of eggs and egg products. July 18. New Principles of International Business Conduct were issued for foreign investors. One of these provided that Canadian affiliates must be given access to the technology and know-how of the foreign parent company. July 18. The second part of the Foreign Investment Review Act was proclaimed and the relevant regulations were issued, as well as special guidelines concerning "related" business. Part II dealt with the establishment of new businesses by persons other than Canadians not already established in Canada or whose new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada. It came into force on October 15. August 7. The import quota on live cattle from the United States was lifted. August 12. The global quota system for imports of beef and veal was extended until December 31. Subquotas were introduced for Australia, New Zealand, and the United States. (With effect from January 1, 1976 imports from any country except Rhodesia of beef and veal in fresh or frozen form ceased to require individual import licenses.) October 14. A program of wage and price guidelines was announced. It was enacted on December 15. On February 26, 1976, the Government announced its decision not to proceed with the proposed special levy on excess profits derived from exports, which was originally to be part of the anti-inflation program. Export sales would therefore be generally exempt from the domestic guidelines. However, the Government would follow developments in the Canadian economy for signs of diversion of goods to export markets at the expense of adequate domestic supply. The Anti-Inflation Board would also be monitoring profits of exporting firms and, where excess revenue was generated, the way in which they were reinvested and, in particular, any evidence that they were not being reinvested in Canada. Such developments would be considered to be contrary to the domestic guidelines and would necessitate a review of the situation by the Government. November 12. The renegotiation of the 1925 Canada- West Indies Trade Agreement began. November 20. It was announced that exports to the United States of crude petroleum and natural gas would be phased out by the end of 1981. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central Afr ican Republic has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central African Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Central Afr ican Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. All remittances to non-BEAC countries are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent; the commission is applicable also to the purchase of banknotes. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct invest- ment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the BEAC. 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the gran t ing of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 108 Prescription of Currency The Central African Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foodstuffs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not originating in a member country of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespec- tive of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports f rom EEC countries (the original member states) also are free from quanti- tative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to 3 There is an inoperative bilateral paymen ts a r rangement with the Sudan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains a f ter return to the Central Afr ican Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in the Central A f r ican Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and d iamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month f rom the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days a f ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless spe- cial authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due date and if received in for- eign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrow- ing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a gov- e rnment guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget within the Ministry of Finance. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r i c an Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduc- t ion of fo re ign securities in the Central African Repub- lic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 4 require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central 4 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign compa- nies that are d irec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central A f r ican Republic. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC African Republic 5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central Afr ican Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between for- eign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations 5 Including those made by companies in the Central Afr ican Repub- lic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of foreign companies. 110 w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total out- s tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central Afr ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r ican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak- ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and min- ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enter- prises receive exemption from direct taxes on speci- fied income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential treatment in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which con- siders the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treat- ments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun- try require a license, which is seldom granted; in prac- tice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treas- ury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1975 January 1. The National Marketing Office for Agri- cultural Products (ONCPA) was abolished by Ordi- nance No. 74-121 of December 26, 1974. It had held a monopoly over the export of certain agricultural commodities. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. I ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been estab- lished with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Chad itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle, financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct invest- ment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Planning. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Oper- i jhe CFA f ranc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 112 ations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs main- tained by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks, provided that the notes are mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent banks concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries (the original member states) other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Minister of State in Charge of the Modern Economy, Planning, Commerce, and International Cooperation on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EEC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transac- tions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is only permitted for specified commodities and requires ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current pay- ments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Chad must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 400,000 a person a trip; the Office of the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning may issue exceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000. Tourist and business travel alloca- tions may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into foreign currency BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of payments that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the CHAD arrival of the commodities at their destination. The pro- ceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on capital transfers to foreign coun- tries, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister, unless the operation 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects sub- mitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minis- ter, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securi- ties whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 114 Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minis- ter within 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, provided, how- ever, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or for- eign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privi- leges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of State in Charge of the Modern Econ- omy, Planning, Commerce, and International Coopera- tion, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued five gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000 which are legal tender. Ordi- nance No. 3 /PR /TP of February 10, 1968 concerning nonmonetary gold (ratified by Law No. 23 of June 4, 1968), in conjunction with relevant exchange control regulations, governs the holding, sale, import, circula- tion, export, and processing of gold and diamonds. Resi- dents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless they have obtained an authoriza- tion issued by the President acting on the advice of the Minister of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Finance, Economy, and Plan- ning and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAVIE), which is a private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement. The parity be- tween the CFA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. CHAD 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency is the Chilean Peso, which replaced the Chilean Escudo on September 29, 1975. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the bank ing ma rke t) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank of Chile, the Banco del Estado, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or entities author- ized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; at present, brokers are not permitted to operate in either market.1 Outward transfers through both markets are controlled. The spot rates of exchange in both markets have been identical since August 25, 1975; they are set by the Central Bank and are adjusted periodically. Transactions passing through the brokers' market are confined to outward payments in respect of obligations resulting from earlier capital inflows through that market (interest, dividends, royalties, and amortization and repa tr ia t ion). Exchange rates for the currencies of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay may be established freely. Transactions in the banking market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; forward exchange purchases are mandatory for imports of most commodities, and a portion of export proceeds (other than those from copper, nitrate, and iron and a few minor exports) may be sold forward.2 For both types of transaction, settlement in pesos is effected at the time the foreign exchange contract is negotiated. Transac- tions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. There is some restriction on the availability of foreign exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (120 days or 90 days f rom the date of settlement in pesos for set- tlement on a letter of credit basis or on a documentary collection basis, respectively);3 banks must sell the exchange to importers on the same terms. On December 31 ,1975 the exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was Ch$8.50 per US$1. In both mar- kets, commissions of 4/w of 1 per cent were permitted only on sales of exchange; the same commission was permitted on purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, where, however, no purchases took place. The Central Bank issues, for sale to the public through the banking system, bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dollars (certificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEPACs) which may be used for import payments or other payments eligible for the bank ing market rate or as collateral for the opening of import letters of credit. The certificates are valid for two years from the date of issue; within the validity period, the Central 1 This prohibition was lifted on April 19, 1976. 2 With effect from February 1, 1976, authorized banks could purchase fo rwa rd exchange only from the Central Bank. 3 With effect from April 29, 1976, the term was unified at 90 days for both letters of credit and collections. 116 Bank makes available to the owner or holder, upon his request, the sum in U.S. dollars stated on the certificate. On or af ter their maturity date, the certificates are redeemable in pesos for the amount originally paid.4 Banks can purchase them f rom the Central Bank, for account of their customers or the general public, at the forward banking market exchange rate in effect on the date of issue, plus such premium or minus such discount as may be established by the Central Bank, plus a 2 per mill commission charge.5 The use of certificates does not relieve the importer from compliance with the forward purchase obligations. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of International Transactions of the Central Bank are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports, all imports of the copper industry, and some imports of the nitrate and iodine industry has been delegated to the Copper Cor- poration (CODELCO ), which is supervised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, except those in respect of specified commodities, must be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Settlements with the Dominican Republic must be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries must take place in specified convertible currencies. There are inoperative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, and Poland. Certain payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and imports of military equ ipment from South Afr ica are prohibited. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless they are on Chile's National List negotiated w i th LAFTA or are imported f rom Andean Pact countries. A small number of com- modities may be considered as effectively prohibited for private importation since, although on the List of Per- 4 With effect from January 28, 1976, the certificates were redeemable at the exchange ra te ru l ing on the due date instead of the issue date. 5 With effect from April 1, 1976, banks and other financial institu- tions were authorized to purchase certificates for their own account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent unless they are imported by public sector agencies, originate in Andean Pact countries, are imported under a special regime, or are on the National List and originate in a LAFTA coun- try; the Executive Committee of the Central Bank, how- ever, may grant specific exemptions. Goods may nor- mally be imported in any amount. Prior to shipment, all imports must be registered with the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications but currently is not exercising this authority.6 Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities ( inc lud ing automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may purchase forward exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved; forward purchase is mandatory for most imports. Settlement in pesos is effected at the time the forward exchange con- tract is negotiated. Foreign exchange for payments of approved imports is sold by the Central Bank for deliv- ery 120 days or 90 days f rom the date of the peso pay- ment (i.e., f rom the date on which the importer buys his exchange forward —but see footnote 3 ). Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida) require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Most are settled in the bank ing market, includ- ing travel expenses. There are established limits for a number of purposes. For tourist travel the allocation (in addition to fares) is the equivalent of US$200 for travel to neighboring countries; the equivalent of US$400 for travel to other parts of La t in America (defined to include the Bahamas, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto R ico ); the equivalent of US$1,000 for travel to Canada, the United States, Europe, and other countries. Banks may sell up to US$120 a person a month for payment of insurance prem iums contracted prior to Ju ly 23, 1974 in foreign currency with national insurance companies or with foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. Transfers of other insurance premiums require the approval of the Central Bank, which acts on the advice of the Supe r in tendent of Insurance. Other estab- lished limits include those for s tudy abroad. At the end of 1975 the basic allocation for f am i ly remittances remained suspended. Transfers in excess of the limits and those in respect of transactions for which no basic allocation has been announced require the prior authori- CHILE zation of the Central Bank.7 Payments for medicines and pharmaceutical products may only be made pro- vided that the product in question is not available in Chile. For some invisibles the Central Bank must approve a transfer application (solicitud de giro); the only docu- mentation required for invisibles that are neither cov- ered by the approval authority delegated to authorized commercial banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an appli- cation form (carta petition) addressed to the Central Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to coun- tries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the value of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for human i tar ian reasons, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South Afr ica also are prohibited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destination. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank (with CODELCO in the case of copper), and the proceeds of exports are sub- ject to surrender requirements. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase on a spot or a forward basis certain foreign exchange proceeds from exporters (but see footnote 2 ). Receipts f rom ma jor exports ( inc lud ing copper) and a few minor exports, however, are sold to the Central Bank on a spot basis, either direct or through commercial banks. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered w i th in 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. However, exporters are per- mitted to repurchase up to 5 per cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered in the bank ing market. Capital Capital inflows are free, but most outflows are restricted. Chile has ratified the Andean Group's Carta- gena Agreement and in principle limits transfers of profits, dividends, and interest on foreign capital to 14 per cent per annum. All new foreign borrowing or re f inanc ing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the taking up of lines of credit with foreign correspondents. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements depending on the purpose and type of the investment. 6 With effect f rom April 22, 1976, the registration requ i rement was revoked for imports of goods on the List of Permitted Imports when valued at US$1,500 or less, f.o.b. 7 With effect f rom April 1, 1976, banks were permitted to approve most payments for current invisibles without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, but up to the existing limits. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 of September 7, 1961, stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or fore ign) has reg- istered with the Central Bank. At the end of 1975, how- ever, such capital had to be sold to the Central Bank in the spot banking market.8 It could only be repatriated with the prior approval of the Central Bank, and not earlier than 18 months after the inflow took place.9 The interest rate must not exceed specified limits. Repa- triation is only allowed in accordance with the amortiza- tion schedule established at the time of registration. The Central Bank, however, has established special terms for the servicing of debt contracted under this regime before December 31, 1973. ( 2) Article 15 of the same Decree provides that the Executive Committee of the Central Bank may authorize the use of foreign credit without any m in imum period of repayment. The foreign exchange may be used for pay- ments abroad and does not have to be sold to the Cen- tral Bank. Repayments, however, can only be settled in the forward banking market. The peso equivalent of the credit must be deposited with the Central Bank at the time of settlement of the transaction, and the foreign exchange is delivered 90 days thereafter. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974, the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign investment in Chile is granted by a Foreign Investment Committee through a fixed-term contract containing undertakings regarding the applicable exchange regime, the withdrawal of capi- tal and remittances of interest and profits, and taxes. The contracts normally are for 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years in special cases. Any foreign credits involved must be authorized by, or registered with, the Central Bank. Foreign capital which entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry but had to be registered with the For- eign Investment Committee within a year from its promulgation. Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement is con- sidered to override any contrary provisions of Decree No. 1272 and of Decree-Law No. 258 of 1960, which prior to Decree-Law No. 600 was the principal law governing foreign investment in Chile. Gold 10 Chile has issued four gold coins, which are legal tender. Newly mined gold is purchased from the pro- 8 This requirement was revoked on January 29, 1976. 9 Reduced to 6 months for inflows authorized by the Central Bank on or after February 3, 1976. 10 With effect from April 1, 1976, the gold regulations were revised. Any physical or juridical person could freely purchase, sell, deal with, or transfer gold in any form, at home or (subject to prior approval by the Central Bank) abroad. 118 ducers by Empresa Nacional de Mineria (ENAM I ), which, after refining, sells it to the Central Bank. The latter has this gold coined at the Mint. The Central Bank makes gold available, to dental users (in the form of Chilean gold coins) and to industrial users (in the form of mint b lanks), at prices that are adjusted from time to time on the basis of quotations on the London gold market. The Central Bank has exclusive power to purchase, sell, negotiate, or transfer gold in any form for any purpose, except in the form of jewelry. All import and export of gold contained in minerals is sub- ject to special authorization by the Central Bank. Gold bars are imported and exported only by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire for industrial use is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement, except when imported by authorized buyers; the import of gold coins is not normally permitted. Changes during 1975 January 1. A value-added tax of 20 per cent was introduced. It was applicable also to imports. January 3. Decree No. 221 introduced a new customs ta r i f f. The maximum rate of duty was lowered to 120 per cent and a m in imum rate of 5 per cent was established. January 16. The Central Bank issued new regulations for sales of gold to domestic users. Dentists and indus- trial users of gold were allowed to purchase their full requirements, provided only that they keep a record of their purchases. Purchases and sales of gold by occa- sional users continued to require the specific authoriza- tion of the Central Bank. January 27. The amount of foreign currency that Chileans or resident foreign nationals not receiving salaries in foreign currency could purchase for travel abroad was reduced as follows: for neighboring coun- tries from US$500 to US$200, for other parts of Latin America from US$1,000 to US$400, and for all other countries from US$2,000 to US$1,000 (Central Bank Circular No. 2281). January 27. The exchange rate in the banking mar- ket was changed from E° 1,870 to E° 2,150 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market from E° 2,000 to E° 2,350 per US$1 (Circular No. 2282). February 11. A new List of Permitted Imports was issued. The number of items subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit was reduced (Circular No. 2285). February 12. The exchange rate in the banking mar- ket was changed to E° 2,320 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 2,550 per US$1 (Circular No. 2286). February 17. Decree-Law No. 896 modified and increased the travel tax (previously E° 50,000 a trip for travel outside Latin America). A rate of 14 tax units a month was established for trips outside Latin America and a rate of 3 tax units for trips within Latin America (except to Argentina, Bolivia, and Peru, travel to which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution was exempt). One tax unit was equivalent to approxi- mately US$20; its domestic currency equivalent was periodically adjusted upward. February 18. The coverage of the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit requirement was further reduced (Circular No. 2289). March-April Decrees Nos. 153, 154, 184, 227, 234, 236, and 565 introduced substantial reductions in import duties. March 1. The exchange rate in the brokers' market was changed to E° 2,900 per US$1. The rate in the banking market remained unchanged at E° 2,320 per US$1 (Circular No. 2292). March 1. The three exchange taxes totaling 13.15 per cent on sales of exchange in the brokers' market for travel exchange and certain other purposes were elimi- nated by Decree-Laws Nos. 825 and 829 of Decem- ber 13, 1974. March 1. Under Decree-Law No. 896, the travel tax was increased to E ° 147,000 for travel to Latin Ameri- can countries other than Argentina, Bolivia, and Peru, for which there was an exemption, and to E° 686,000 for travel to other countries. March 1. The exchange tax of 18.5 per cent on sales of exchange in the banking market for transfers of profits and dividends was eliminated by Decree-Law No. 825 of December 27, 1974. March 7. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 2,550 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 3,150 per US$1 (Circular No. 2295). March 14. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 2,750 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 3,400 per US$1 (Circular No. 2297). March 19. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 3,250 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 3,700 per US$1 (Circular No. 2299). March 26. The foreign exchange required for pay- ments for various services and interest and for capital repatriation had to be purchased forward instead of spot (Circular No. 2301). April 4. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 3,500 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 3,900 per US$1 (Circular No. 2303). April 4. Circular No. 1275 of the Superintendency of Banks, which supplemented its Circular No. 1249 of November 22, 1974, gave further implementing instruc- tions for the New Entrepreneur Plan (Plan Nuevo Empresario) authorized by Decree No. 1955 of Novem- ber 12, 1974 of the Ministry of Finance. April 16. Certain remittances covered by Circular No. 2301 could again be made with spot exchange, up to US$1,000 a transfer; they included remittances to scholarship students and for medical treatment abroad (Circular No. 2309). CHILE April 23. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 3,800 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 4,200 per US$1 (Circular No. 2316). May 2. The Banco del Estado and the commercial banks were freely permitted to contract lines of credit with foreign correspondent banks, without prior Central Bank approval (Circular No. 2321). May 5. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E ° 3,900 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 4,300 per US$1 (Circular No. 2322). May 9. The regulations regarding the importation and repatriation of foreign capital and credits under Arti- cle 14 of Decree No. 1272 were changed to allow re-export of capital imported on or after May 7 after 6 months (previously 18 months) as well as semiannual remittances of interest. The ceiling on the permissible rate of interest (2 per cent over the New York prime rate or over LIBOR) was removed; the permissible rate would be that approved by the Central Bank when the capital was imported (Circular No. 2326). May 12. Further implementing regulations for the New Entrepreneur Plan were announced. Lines of credit in foreign currency would be made available through commercial banks to finance imports of vehi- cles, machinery, and equipment on eight-year credit terms and at 6 per cent interest (Circular No. 2330). May 12. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E ° 4,100 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 4,500 per US$1 (Circular No. 2331). May 16. Commercial banks no longer required Cen- tral Bank approval to grant guarantees in foreign cur- rency. Any obligation arising under such guarantees, however, had to be met out of their own foreign cur- rency holdings (Circular No. 2334). May 22. Banks were freely permitted to advance for- eign exchange by forward sale, in respect of freight charges on exports. Such advances were subject to inter- est at a rate not exceeding 18 per cent (Circular No. 2335). May 23. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 4,300 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 4,800 per US$1 (Circular No. 2336). May 26. The provisions of Circular No. 2062 con- cerning transfers of capital under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 of 1961 were modified. The minimum time after which capital could be re-exported was reduced from 18 months to 6 months for capital imported on or after May 7, and the interest rate on credits taken up before May 7 could be set freely. For capital inflows, the Central Bank would issue nontransferable certificates (certificados de aporte de capital). Import, re-export, and servicing were to be effected through the banking mar- ket (Circular No. 2337). 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE May 29. Circular No. 2338 modified Circular No. 2218 and listed the export commodities whose exchange proceeds could not be sold forward as copper ore and copper products, iron ore, nitrates, and iodine. May 29. The retransfer was permitted of capital imported prior to December 31, 1973 and registered by means of capital import certificates. Remittances relat- ing to capital imported after December 31, 1973 would be governed by Circular No. 2337. Circular No. 2227 was revoked (Circular No. 2341 ). May 29. The servicing of specified foreign financial debts was regulated. Circulars Nos. 2134 and 2216 were revoked (Circular No. 2342 ). June 4. The validity of bank ing market payments certificates (CEPACs) was extended from one to two years f rom the date of issue (Circular No. 2346). June 5. Remittances to scholarship students abroad were shifted f rom the bank ing market to the brokers' market. Their max imum amount was increased by 30 per cent (Circular No. 2350). June 6. Allocations for monthly remittances to stu- dents abroad were increased; they were differentiated according to three groups of countries (Circular No. 2351). June 10. The exchange rate in the bank ing market was changed to E° 4,600 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E ° 5,100 per US$1 (Circular No. 2353). June 12. All import registrations and attached appli- cations had to be submitted to the Executive Committee Secretariat of the Central Bank (Circular No. 2355). June 23. A new list was issued of imports for which prior authorization from the Ministry of National Defense was required (Circular No. 2358). June 23. Banks were authorized to supply advances, by forward sales of exchange, for the amortization and interest on fore ign credits taken up under the provisions of Article 14 of the Foreign Exchange Law. Such advances were subject to interest not exceeding 18 per cent per annum (Circular No. 2360). June 24. The exchange rate in the bank ing market was changed to E° 5,000 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 5,500 per US$1 (Circular No. 2361). June 25. Decree-Law No. 1055 provided for the establishment of free zones in Iquique and Punta Arenas. The import duty and tax exemptions would for most free zones be phased out by July 1, 1978. July 2. Medium-term and long-term obligations ma tu r ing in 1975 to Austria, Finland, Israel, Liechten- stein, Norway, and Portugal were exempted from the requirements of Circular No. 2274, which had sus- pended payments of capital and interest (Circular No. 2366). July 10. The exchange rate in the bank ing market was changed to E ° 5,300 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 5,800 per US$1 (Circular No. 2370). 120 July 11. The export proceeds from 13 commodities, inc lud ing coal, certain ores, newsprint, fish meal, and fish oil could no longer be sold forward (Circular No. 2371). July 16. The state monopoly on oil exploration was ended and foreign firms were allowed to bid for service contracts. July 17. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 5,500 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 6,000 per US$1 (Circular No. 2373). July 18. Circular No. 1313 of the Superintendency of Bank ing allowed foreign firms free access to the domes- tic credit market. July 24. The exchange rate in the bank ing market was changed to E° 5,700 per US$1; that in the brokers' market remained unchanged at E° 6,000 per US$1 (Circular No. 2375). August. Decrees Nos. 833, 841, 847, 892, 896, and 950 provided for further reductions in import duties. August 1. The regulations for imports into other parts of Chile f rom the free zones of Iquique and Punta Arenas were revised. Circular No. 1350 was revoked (Circular No. 2376). August 1. The Central Bank declared that access to the exchange market to make payments in respect of royalties and technical know-how was given by implica- tion as soon as the relevant contract was approved by the Foreign Investment Committee (Circular No. 2377). August 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with the Dominican Republic came into operation (Circular No. 2378). August 7. New rules were announced for forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange by authorized banks from exporters and to importers. Circulars Nos. 2218, 2223, 2338, and 2371 were revoked (Cir- cular No. 2381). August 8. The exchange rate in the bank ing market was changed to E° 5,800 per US$1; that in the brokers' market remained unchanged at E° 6,000 per US$1 (Circular No. 2383). August 14. Access to the banking market was given to banks obliged to pay foreign currency liabilities stem- m i ng f rom foreign currency guarantees for specified types of transactions. No special authorization from the Central Bank was required for such guarantees, but they had to be registered w i th the Central Bank. Circu- lar No. 2334 was revoked (Circular No. 2384). August 25. The period w i th in which capital imported under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 could not be re-exported was increased f rom 6 months to 18 months for inflows authorized by the Central Bank from the date of publication of the new regulation in the Official Gazette. This modified Circular No. 2337 (Circular No. 2388). August 25. The exchange rate in the banking market was changed to E° 6,000 per US$1, while that in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution brokers' ma rket remained unchanged. As a result, the spot rates in the two markets were un if ied (Circular No. 2389). August 29. The regulations for the surrender of advance receipts of export proceeds and of loans to exporters were revised. Also, banks were empowered to sell exchange to exporters, at the spot bank ing market rate, for the payment by exporters of freight, insurance, consular duties, premiums or interest on guarantees, and interest on foreign currency loans. This modified Circu- lar No. 2035 (Circular No. 2390). August 29. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to E° 6,100 per US$1 (Circular No. 2391 ). September 1. Instructions were issued for the regis- tra t ion w i th the Central Bank of guarantees and pledges (Circular No. 2392 ). September 4. The a l loca t ion of payments and receipts in respect of invisibles between the two exchange mar- kets (Circular No. 1972) was revised; most items in the brokers' ma rket were shifted to the bank ing market. The only transactions that could still be settled in the brokers' market were those related to the servicing of foreign capital that had previously been imported through that market. Circular No. 2106 was revoked (Circular No. 2394). September 4. Imports of certain iron and steel manu- factures were exempted f rom the 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement (C ircu lar No. 2395 ). September 5. Commercial banks were permitted to issue exchange guaran tee certificates in foreign currency, without special au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank, to foreign correspondents or to guarantee the qua l i ty and reliability of export sh ipmen ts. Banks were given access to the bank ing market for any exchange needed to com- ply with resulting commitments. The guarantee certifi- cates had to be registered with the Central Bank. Cir- cular No. 1998 was revoked (Circular No. 2396). September 5. Circular No. 2398 modified Circular No. 2384 in respect of bank guarantees relating to exports. September 17. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to E° 6,400 per US$1 (Circular No. 2402). September 26. The Central Bank announced that it would m a i n t a in the au thor iza t ion given to banks to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports of nitrates, iodine, and iron ore. This clarified Circular No. 2381 and modified Circular No. 1972 (Circular No. 2407). September 29. A new mone tary un i t, the peso, replaced the escudo, at a ratio of E° 1,000 = Ch$ l. September 30. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$6.70 per US$1 (Circular No. 2409). October 3. Authorized banks were freely permitted to buy, sell, transfer, or settle in, Argentine pesos, CHILE Bolivian pesos, Brazilian cruzeiros, Paraguayan guara- nies, Pe ruv ian soles, and U ruguayan new pesos. Chilean and fore ign physical or jur id ical persons could freely deal in these currencies with banks, at freely agreed prices. Banks were not required to surrender these cur- rencies to the Central Bank, and the latter was not required to buy or sell them. Circulars Nos. 2192 and 2194 were revoked (Circular No. 2412). October 9. New rules were issued for forward pur- chases and sales of exchange by banks. Banks could freely establish the interest rate on forward purchases f rom exporters, and were required to sell this exchange to the Central Bank. The Central Bank would sell exchange fo rwa rd to the commercial banks at 120 days for impo rt letters of credit (previously 10-120 days) and at 90 days for imports on a collection basis (previ- ously 10-90 d ay s ). Three forward bank ing markets were established (A, B, and C). The commodities whose export proceeds could not be sold forward, or whose proceeds had to be sold spot to the Central Bank, were listed. Circulars Nos. 2381 and 2407 were revoked (Circular No. 2413). October 10. Exporters were permitted to repurchase in the spot banking market up to 5 per cent of the amount of export proceeds they sold. These amounts could be held in foreign currency in a bank account in Chile, the ba lance in which could not exceed US$50,000. They could be used for travel expenses and expenses of advisory services associated with the holder's export program (Circular No. 2414). October 16. A loose-leaf compendium of all existing exchange control regulations was issued, to be completed shor t ly w i th a chapter on import payments. Upon publi- cation of these regulations in the Official Gazette, all relevant decisions and circulars would be deemed revoked (Circular No. 2416). October 20. An updated and modified version of the export regulations was issued. It would come into force from the date of publication in the Official Gazette (Circular No. 2417). October 22. New regulations for forward purchases of export proceeds by banks were issued. These could not exceed 50 per cent of the total amount to be sur- rendered, or 20 per cent where the exporter was a for- eign firm (Circular No. 2419 ). October 27. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$7.10 per US$1 (Circular No. 2422 ). October 28. Except for travel within Latin America, Decree-Law No. 1234 replaced the travel tax expressed in terms of tax un i ts with a tax of 10 per cent on the va lue of the ticket. November 7. The chapter on imports for the exchange control compendium was issued (Circular No. 2423). November 7. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$7.50 per US$1 (Circular No. 2424). 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE November 14. It was confirmed that "old" capital imports, which had not been entitled to retransfer abroad and were not covered by Article 2 of Decree-Law No. 600 of 1974, continued to be governed by the general rules of the Foreign Exchange Law (Circular No. 2426). November 24. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$7.80 per US$1 (Circular No. 2428). December 4. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$8.10 per US$1 (Circular No. 2430). December 4. The lists of imports subject to the 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement were reduced to five tar iff items. For two of these (including certain gold for dental or industrial use ), there was a conditional exemption (Circular No. 2431). December 4. Decree No. 751 of the Ministry of Economy, Development, and Reconstruction modified the list of imports subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit with automatic release. December 17. The exchange rate in both spot exchange markets was changed to Ch$8.50 per US$1 (Circular No. 2433). December 18. The rules relating to the servicing of foreign private debt in foreign currency contracted before December 31, 1973 were extended to the end of 1976. Repayments due in 1976 were to be made in three equal installments starting in 1976 (Circular No. 2434). 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0204628 gram of fine gold per New Taiwan Dollar. On February 16, 1973, the Repub- lic of China established a central rate of NT$1 = SDR 0.0218144, corresponding at the time to 0.0193858 gram of fine gold per new Taiwan dollar or NT$38 = US$1, and availed itself of wider margins. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$37.95 and NT$38.05, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially posted may be accepted by authorized banks ("appointed banks"), and the rates are calculated in accordance with foreign market quotations.2 With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. There is no exchange market. The appointed banks clear their exchange transactions at the end of each day with the Central Bank. Forward cover facilities are limited to import and export transac- tions and to the officially posted currencies, with the exception of the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. For- eign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the Ministries of Finance and Economic Affairs and the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The For- eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank is responsible for the overall management of foreign exchange, for the determination of the official buying and selling rates of exchange, and for the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Economic Affairs coordinates industrial and trade policies, including those relating to the import regime and export promotion, and is in charge of the issuance of import and export licenses. By delegation, the Application Receipt and Dis- patch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses; for some goods, however, import applications and licenses are screened and issued by 18 appointed banks and their branches. Export applications are screened, and export permits are issued, by 30 appointed banks. Most foreign exchange through appointed banks. transactions are conducted Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dol- lars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds ster- ling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Currencies not officially posted may be accepted by appointed banks but must be converted into posted currencies in exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange in the form of any of the posted currencies for making payments to residents of foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts The Republic of China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially different from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of for- eign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign bank- notes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remit- tances from abroad or of money orders or other nego- tiable instruments drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be with- drawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buying rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments 3 Most imports require individual licenses. Appointed banks have authority to screen import applications for 1 Australian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds ster- ling, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. 2 A conversion rate of ¥ 8.88 — NT$1 exists for Japanese banknotes. 3 Special regulations apply to imports into the three export processing zones. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA most items on the permissible list (see below), to issue import licenses on behalf of the Central Bank, and to make the necessary foreign exchange available; these goods are automatically approved for an import license. For other commodities subject to license, license appli- cations are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. The holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Importers of goods on the permissible list may con- tract on documents against payment (D / P ), documents against acceptance (D /A ), or usance letter of credit terms (credit terms of less than 180 days may be approved by appointed banks, while longer terms require approval by the Central B a n k ). For imports on a letter of credit basis, exchange settlement corresponding to 15 per cent of the letter of credit must be made within 28 days of approval of the license for imports taking place on the basis of sight letters of credit, usance letters of credit, letters of credit financed by self-provided exchange, and letters of credit on an installment pay- ment basis; for letters of credit covering bulk imports specially approved by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, the settlement requirement is 10 per cent. This advance settlement requirement, the so-called performance deposit, is a condition for the issuance of a letter of credit. Imports from communist countries are prohibited in principle, although imports of bulk goods, industrial raw materials, and many consumer goods f rom any source other than the People's Republic of China are now being licensed. The authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain cer- tain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from the People's Republic of China; for similar reasons, certain commodities are not permitted to be imported f rom Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, and Singapore. Certain commodities financed with U.S. aid funds (including tied letter of credit fund s) can be imported only f rom the United States. Imports of color television sets and many types of scrap metal are prohibited when originating in Japan. Applications for imports f rom Japan of machinery valued over US$200,000 for each individual order require the approval of the Board of Foreign Trade. Imports of 1,215 items on the permissible list (see below) are allowed only when the goods originate in Western Europe, the United States, or Canada. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries f rom importation but also a wide range of Pharmaceuticals. The controlled list contains, in addition to such items as arms and ammunition, ships, and poisonous chemicals, a number of luxury goods and less essential items (such as certain 124 Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, certain medicines, tea, sugar and its substitutes, molasses, made- up clothing, consumer durables, antiques, certain jewelry, gold, and silver) and goods subject to domestic regula- tion and allocation. The first type of goods are licensed restrictively;4 goods of the second type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a government monopoly orga- nization, which is also responsible for domestic distribu- tion of these commodities. Goods on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be imported by both end-users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to factories and end- users. Manufacturers applying for licenses for raw mate- rials are encouraged to give preference to locally pro- duced supplies. On December 31, 1975, of 15,288 classified import items, 13 were prohibited, 503 were controlled, and 14,772 were permissible; on the same date, only 97 items on the permissible list required approval by the Board of Foreign Trade, while all others could be imported under the automatic approval system. A general (covering) licensing procedure applies in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, manufac turers and other direct end-users are granted authorization semiannually for the importation of listed items specified by value and by quantity. Exchange for such imports is obtainable automatically each time the importer presents the general approved license at an appointed bank. Furthermore, an auto- matic approval system is applied to most items on the permissible list. Under this system, importers may obtain foreign exchange at any appointed bank by submitted import licenses which are automatically approved. On December 31, 1974, the system applied to 14,693 items, and on December 31, 1975 to 14,675 items. Special regulations apply to seven commodities nor- mally imported in bulk shipments.5 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese flag vessels for their importation. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, qualified private traders, and end-users and manufacturers. The import of crude oil is confined to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("regis- tered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") 4 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities, e.g., hotels for the tourist trade. 5 Soybeans, soybean flour, wheat, barley, corn, sorghum, and rapeseed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$500,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$100,000 for the last year. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for foreign suppliers. They also must be registered by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equip- ment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the production of plywood). According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: ( 1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. P.L. 480 pro- gram and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lend- ers, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self- provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempt from the surrender requirement. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restric- tion. Residents may at any time (but not more often than four times a year) make outward transfers up to the equivalent of US$250 for any purpose other than import payments; applications for such personal remit- tances are approved automatically. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 60 per cent of their monthly salary. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their depend- ents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees of foreign institutions and certain pay- REPUBLIC OF CHINA ments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are also approved. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rentals may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses. The remittance of the earn- ings of foreign entertainers may be approved on a case- by-case basis. The full amount of tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad may be remitted, and up to US$4,000 a year in the second to fifth academic years. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$1,200 a person a trip (US$600 for each accompany- ing dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel; visas for tourist travel, however, are not normally granted to Chinese nationals. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$1,500 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Appli- cations for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on their merits. Residents leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$2,000 in domestic bank- notes and 20 coins and the equivalent of US$600 in foreign currencies. Nonresident travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency upon submission of the foreign exchange memorandum evi- dencing their acquisition of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds 6 All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to noncommunist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms and asparagus. The export of some foodstuffs, as well as of fertilizers, logs, cement, steel, and scrap of iron and steel, is either prohibited or sus- pended. There are ceilings on the export of textiles and stainless flatwear to specified countries. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the pro- cessed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. 6 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the export processing zones. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA With minor exceptions, exporters are required to sur- render exchange earnings accruing f rom exports imme- diately after their collection. Most exports to any per- mitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days f rom shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$200 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$200 without provid- ing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro- ceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and originally approved by the Investment Commission of the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, must be surrendered to the banks; otherwise, earnings may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign exchange account. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$4,000 for each traveler; a license f rom the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents ( inc lud ing overseas Chi- nese) may be made in capital equ ipment or raw mate- rials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954 (as amended in 1959 and 1968) and the Statute for the Encouragement of Investment of September 10, 1960 (as amended in 1965, 1967, 1970, and 1974), new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unre- stricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in rela- tion to the invested fund s; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original fo rm; (4) favorable treat- ment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricul- tural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immu- nity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. 126 To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises con- ducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as m in ing, communications, and manufac- tu r ing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonresidents ( inc lud ing overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign invest- ment laws, as described above, must obtain approval f rom the M in is try of Economic Affairs. Purchases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Depar tment of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufactured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Appli- cations that receive sympathetic treatment include those which would assist in assuring a stable supply of raw materials for domestic industries. Portfolio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not nor- mally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and foreign persons who have settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any t rans fer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic, other than an exchange allowance of US$2,000 for each Chinese em igran t. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and so fo r th, are not normally granted the right of t ran s fe r r ing them from the Republic. Certain inflows of short-term capital are restricted. Domestic banks are permitted to hold short-term depos- its (with maturities up to three months) with their correspondents but they are not normally permitted to make longer-term time deposits abroad or to acquire foreign securities. Gold Producers of gold must sell their output to ornamental gold processors (registered goldsmiths, silversmiths, and jewe le rs ), through the Central Trust of China; gold delivered to the Central Trust for refining must have a fineness of 0.945, any necessary reduction being under- taken by the Taiwan Metal Mining Corporation. Any newly produced gold that remains unsold must be kept in the custody of institutions specifically designated by the Governmen t; at present, only the Central Trust is so designated. Ornamen tal gold processors are not permit- ted to sell gold of a fineness in excess of 0.945. Other residents may hold gold in any form and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Travelers may bring in any amount of gold, which must be declared upon entry if its weight exceeds 5 shih Hang, i.e., 156.25 grams; other imports of gold are not per- mitted. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih liang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Otherwise, exports of gold and gold jewelry by travelers are not normally permitted. Changes during 1975 January 1. A three-year agreement with the United States on trade in textiles came into force. January 23. The suspension of exports of wheat flour was extended for another year. January 25. The 50 per cent reduction of import duties on crude petroleum and petroleum products was extended for another year. February 2. Imports of several types of glass were restricted to sources in Western Europe, the United States, and Canada. February 21. The 50 per cent reduction of import duties on nine industrial raw materials (introduced in August 1973) was terminated. February 25. The 50 per cent reduction of import duties on barley, soybeans, wheat bran, scrap of iron and steel, and five other items (introduced in Febru- ary 1973) was terminated, but for corn the same measure was extended for another year. March 1. Imports of various precious stones, ivory, and certain paper products were restricted to sources in Western Europe, the United States, and Canada. April 7. The regulations governing domestic trade in gold were revised. Gold for use in the production of ornaments had to be of a fineness of 94.5 per cent or less. Gold intended for the production of ornaments for export and gold for industrial use could henceforth be purchased from the Central Trust by special distribu- tion, while previously it could only be purchased through open tenders conducted by the Central Trust. April 12. Imports from Japan of certain types of scrap metal were prohibited. On August 2 and Octo- ber 25 imports from Japan of additional categories of scrap metal were prohibited. April 12. Imports of 103 items, including various types of fish and fruits and certain industrial goods, were prohibited from sources in Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, and Singapore. April 13. The import duty reductions ranging from 15 per cent to 35 per cent (introduced in 1973) for REPUBLIC OF CHINA certain industrial raw materials and some iron products were terminated. June 7. Imports of various types of rosin were pro- hibited from sources in Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, and Singapore. June 13. The 50 per cent reduction of import duties on certain animal and vegetable fats and oils (introduced in June 1974) was terminated. June 21. Imports of certain machine tools, includ- ing grinding, gear cutting, and boring machines, were restricted to sources in Western Europe, the United States, and Canada. June 27. Import duties on sound equipment and television sets were raised. Those on certain animal products were lowered. July 10. The amount of foreign currency that resi- dents leaving the Republic of China could take out was increased from US$400 to US$600. August 2. The exchange allowance for any approved type of travel was increased from US$1,000 a person a trip to US$1,200 a person a trip. The business travel allowance for per diem and living expenses was increased from US$1,200 a month to US$1,500 a month. August 2. The exchange allowance for students abroad, for the second to fifth academic years, was increased from US$3,600 to US$4,000 a year. August 2. The remittance facility for "petty outward remittances" was increased from US$200 to US$250 a person every three months. August 25. Borrowing abroad by banks in the form of foreign currency loans for conversion into new Taiwan dollars and relending to domestic industrial and mining firms was suspended; such firms, however, con- tinued to receive permission to borrow foreign currency abroad for their own account, for working capital purposes. September 22. Importers of beef voluntarily agreed to donate NT$4 per pound of beef imported to a devel- opment fund for the domestic cattle industry. October 9. Borrowing abroad by investment and trust companies in the form of foreign currency loans and relending to domestic industrial and mining firms was restricted to loans for the import of machinery and equipment by productive enterprises, and provided that the term of the relending exceeded one year. October 17. The exchange allocation for the payment of export commissions was reduced from 5 per cent to 3 per cent of the selling price. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or the authorized banks in the official market —the exchange certificate market —in which the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1975, the average selling rate in the certificate market was Col$33.02 per US$1. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the central bank's accounting rate of Col$30.00 per US$1; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expen- ditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other effective exchange rates, some of which result from a system of tax credit certificates granted on export proceeds. The d ifferent exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1975, the fluctuating buying rate for proceeds f rom coffee exports (a f ter tak- ing into account a 19 per cen tl exchange tax) was Col$26.70 per US$1, and that for most other exports about Col$34.61 per US$1. In principle, all imports are paid for at the certificate market rate, and all payments and receipts in respect of current invisibles and capital also take place at that rate. A fixed rate of Col$25.00 per US$1 applies to certain petroleum transactions.2 The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate ruling on the date of issue, exchange war- rants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro). These war- rants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged, provided that the holder pre- sents an exchange license, for exchange certificates ( for the same amount of foreign currency and free of charge). Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certifi- cate market buying rate ruling on the date of repur- chase. Warrants bear interest at 7 per cent per annum. Warrants held un t il af ter ma tur i ty cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate ruling on the maturity date. approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is deter- mined by the Foreign Trade Council. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct invest- ment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department, which evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international trans- actions are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but import- ers and exporters are also free to use Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Settlements with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Yugoslavia for commercial transactions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agreement. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an 1 Reduced to 18 per cent with effect from January 1, 1976. 2 Changed to Col$26.00 per US$1 with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or jur id ical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign cur- rency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colom- bian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classi- fied as follows: goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX, and goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there are a global free list applicable to all countries, a National Free List applicable to LAFTA countries only, and a free list applicable to Andean Common Market countries only. Liberalized imports on the global free list corresponded to about 50 per cent of reimbursable imports in 1975.3 All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Import licenses for certain items are not normally issued; these include arms and hab i t - fo rm ing drugs, certain foods tuffs, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods. Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$100. Registration is not automatically accepted by INCOMEX and may be rejected. The charge for import registration is Col$200 plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value (with a m in imum of US$4 ). Advance impo rt deposits (consignaciones) in Colombian currency of at least 25 per cent of the registered amount must be made with an authorized bank before import registration is permitted; the deposit may be used at any time to make import payments.4 This deposit is increased to 100 per cent when the goods are financed by banks abroad or by suppliers' credit; in the latter case, a guarantee of 20 per cent of the amount of the registra- tion must in addition be given but in the former case the importer has the option of making a deposit of only 40 per cent, provided a guarantee of 20 per cent is given. An advance deposit of 5 per cent of the registered amount applies to certain imports of the automobile industry. The following are among the ma in exemptions from advance import deposits: nonreimbursable imports;3 imports brought into Colombia under special import- export arrangements (the Vallejo P l a n ); all foodstuffs and agricultural inputs; all imports for the military and the police; all imports from Andean Group countries; imports by official entities when financed with foreign credits having a maturity of at least three years; imports from Spain (when financed under the bilateral payments agreemen t); goods exempt by virtue of an international 3 The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports f inanced from Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed with fore ign credit; they include imports under bilateral paymen ts agree- ments. Nonreimbursable imports consist ma in ly of aid impor ts under grants, commodities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. 4 The advance deposit requ irement was abolished with e f fect f rom February 2, 1976. COLOMBIA agreement; goods of prime necessity imported by the Ins t i tu te of Agricultural Marketing (!DEMA); most imports by universities and other nonprofit-making educational institutions; books, newspapers, and magazines; and goods f rom countries with which Colombia maintains payments agreements, provided they are imported through the free port of San Andres y Providencia. The advance import deposit is calculated on the total value of the goods, at the current selling rate for exchange certificates. The importer is issued a non- negotiable noninterest-bearing title denominated in for- eign currency and corresponding to the advance import deposit; during its six-month validity the title may be used to purchase exchange for import payments, and at the expiration of this period the title, if unutilized, will be repurchased by the central bank at the original exchange rate. Under these arrangements, the importer is free to put up a deposit in excess of the prescribed m in imum of 25 per cent of the registration amount. A prior exchange license issued by the Exchange Office is required for payments for imports. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities; goods of LAFTA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, con- sular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. Imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Government, and a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange cer- tificate rate. In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted accord- ing to officially established priorities determined by the Monetary Board; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institu- tions without prior exchange license, and commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also t rans fer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles (including banking commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, and the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support) and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Payments for travel abroad are limited to US$40 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,400 a year; this limit may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country. Transfers 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA to professionals and technicians undertaking courses abroad are generally restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other students the ceilings vary from US$200 to US$300 a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Remittances for the support of relatives abroad are limited to US$250 a month for each beneficiary. The Exchange Office, however, is empowered to grant larger allocations. For- eign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the coun- try, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for IDEMA. No export licenses are required. Prior application for registration, however, is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, export- ers must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guar- antee in pesos (but without depositing any fund s) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amount, to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. Coffee export- ers are exempt. The periods for surrendering export pro- ceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export; (2) for banana exports, 50 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 30 days following the regis- tration of the export, and the remaining 50 per cent within 60 days after the registration; and (3) for other goods, generally within 180 days of registration. How- ever, INCOMEX may permit longer terms for goods sold on a commission basis, capital goods, and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. In addition, where the exporter avails himself of advance surrender of export proceeds, special rules are applicable for the definitive surrender. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL, however, is permitted to retain part of its export proceeds abroad for the settlement of its imports. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than 130 coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario) in an amount corresponding to a speci- fied percentage of the total earnings surrendered, con- verted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This ratio is Vw of 1 per cent, 5 per cent, or 7 per cent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for exports under the Vallejo Plan. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six months after issuance for the pay- ment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the bankers' market. The certificates have a validity of five to ten days, after which they must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Coffee exports are subject to the fol- lowing regulations: (1) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insur- ance, at US$117.00 per 70-kilogram bag.5 (2) Export- ters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 19 per cent ad valorem (see footnote 1). Of this tax, 4 per- centage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. (3) Export- ers must either surrender in the form of untreated coffee to the National Federation of Coffee Growers and with- out payment the equivalent of 30 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetero) or pay the Federation the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla y ritio tax); the tax must be paid, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federa- tion. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. Anticipated export proceeds from coffee may be pro- visionally surrendered in advance of actual surrender (when prefinanced by foreign buyers) provided that the latter takes place within 60 days of the provisional sur- render, at the prevailing exchange rate in the certificate market.6 The peso payment to the coffee exporter at the time of actual surrender is based on the certificate mar- ket rate on the day of advance surrender. Exporters of meat and textiles may surrender 80 per cent of their export proceeds in advance, at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate; they must sell the remaining 20 per cent 5 Increased to US$130.00 with effect from January 15, 1976. 6 This term may be extended by another 60 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the Bank of the Republic within four months follow- ing the advance surrender, in order to be eligible for the exchange d ifferen t ial between the Ministry of Finance exchange rate and the certificate market rate prevailing at the time of definitive surrender. The advance sur- render of the export proceeds f rom cotton, bananas, and tobacco is settled at the certificate market rate ruling on the day the exchange is purchased, and is subject also to the other conditions established for such transactions by Monetary Board Resolution No. 86/74. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted at the certificate market buy- ing rate. Capital All inward and outward capital t rans fe rs are effected at the certificate market rate. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new fore ign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,7 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic.8 Capital imports also require prior approval by the National Planning Depar tment in accordance with directives issued by the Na t ional Council for Eco- nomic and Social Policy; capital for the petroleum indus- try or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on cer ta in conditions specified in Resolution No. 17 of July 19, 1972 by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy. The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beg inn ing with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding importance or involving spe- cial risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 14 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years, provided that the addi- tional remittances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions f rom import duty and f rom advance deposit and import license requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Following a transitional period end ing on June 30, 1978, all foreign banks and their branches must have Colom- bian majority participation. New direct fore ign invest- 7 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all na tu re do not requ i re registra- tion; their repayment is au thor ized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York p r ime rate or the London interbank rate. 8 At the end of 1975, the registration of certain foreign investments and of old contracts involving payment of royalties, commissions, etc., had not yet been completed. COLOMBIA ment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial ins t i tu t ions is restricted to investors from Andean Pact member countries and to "national" or "mixed" com- panies. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or established companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in tourism- related activities. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum ma tur i ty of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank rate. Such loans normally are permitted only when needed as working capital by, or for direct invest- ment in, industrial, mining, or agricultural businesses that produce for export only. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing f rom foreign currency borrowed abroad. For- eign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and the National P lann ing Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Government, the following are also required: prior authorization by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the bene- ficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment at the prevailing certificate market rate. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. Gold Physical and jur id ical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for collection purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the country at US$42.2222 an ounce and pays 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital m in ing companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to Vw of 1 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Colombian pesos at their market value. The Bank of 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA the Republic pays producers a premium to offset the difference between the international price and the official gold price. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold markets during the previous month; this price is translated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certifi- cates on the date of sale. Imports and exports of gold are a monopoly of the Bank of the Republic; imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The assay and refining houses and the mining compa- nies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Super- intendency in order to carry on their operations. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1975) The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Resi- dents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1975 During the year the selling rate in the certificate exchange market was gradually depreciated from Col$28.74 to Col$33.02 per U.S. dollar. January 1. Presidential Decree No. 2374 of Octo- ber 31, 1974 came into effect. It reduced the tax on the exchange proceeds from coffee from 20 per cent to 19 per cent for the year 1975. This tax would be reduced in annual installments of 1 percentage point to 16 per cent by January 1, 1978. January 1. Presidential Decree No. 2004 of Septem- ber 24, 1974 came into effect. It reduced the rates of tax credit certificates granted on exports from gener- ally 15 per cent to %o of 1 per cent for specified agri- Buying Selling (pesos per U.S. dollar) 25.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned companies in Colombia for domestic refining.9 30.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of public debt, diplomatic expenses, official travel, etc. 33.02 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All imports. All other transactions.12 26.70 (Certificate Market Rate less 19% Exchange Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee exports.™ 30.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conversion of Government's receipts from exchange tax on coffee exports. 32.96 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude oil and petroleum derivatives.11 Exports from free ports. All receipts from invisibles and capital transfers. 32.99 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for %o of 1% of Export Value Con- verted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Exports of cement and specified agricultural and min- eral commodities (including milk and dairy products, live animals other than cattle, cereal grains, sugar, sulfur, emeralds and other precious stones, and gold).13 34.61 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 5% of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Specified agricultural exports.13-14 35.27 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 7% of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) All other exports.13.14> ^ 9 This rate is also used as a computation rate to determine the price in pesos which ECOPETROL and foreign-owned companies receive for domestic sales of crude petroleum. 10 Advance surrender of export proceeds from coffee may result in a different effective rate; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above. 11 Receipts from exports of crude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrendered. 12 Different effective rates arise from the application of the taxes of 12 per cent and 20 per cent collected by the Exchange Office on certain nonrecurrent remittances. 13 Tax credit certificates traded immediately after issue were quoted at a discount. The average rate in the certificate market during December 5, 1975-January 4, 1976 as determined by the Ministry of Finance was Col$32.54 per US$1. 14 For meat and textiles, advance surrender of export proceeds may result in different effective rates. 15 Except specified exports of manufactured goods, for which tax credit certificates are granted on the basis of value added rather than export value; this practice results in additional effective exchange rates. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cultural and mineral products; to 7 per cent for certain agricultural products; and to 5 per cent for all other products. January 1. Ministry of Finance Decree No. 2086 of September 30, 1974 came into effect. It provided that in calculating the tax credit certificate entitlement for exported manufactured goods the value of the imported raw materials would be deducted from the value of the export. January 1. The Bank of the Republic was required to deduct the amount needed to make import payments under the Vallejo Plan f rom the export proceeds surren- dered in respect of the relevant export transaction (Monetary Board Resolution No. 81 of December 11, 1974). January 15. Freight on exports registered on a c.i.f. or c. & f. basis under Monetary Board Resolutions Nos. 15 of March 6, 1974 and 39 of July 3, 1974 could also be paid in national currency. Transportation com- panies receiving such freight payments in national cur- rency had the right to receive exchange licenses f rom the Exchange Office for up to 80 per cent of value (Monetary Board Resolution No. 3 ). January 21. The export controls were modified and liberalized with effect f rom February 1 (INCOMEX Reso- lution No. 003). January 31. Presidential Decree No. 169 restricted inward foreign investment in tourist activities and in companies dealing with the resale in Colombia of imported and domestic products. In the case of internal resale of domestic products new direct foreign invest- ment could be permitted by the National Planning Department but the Director would generally make the establishment of new firms conditional upon their transformation into mixed companies under Presidential Decree No. 1900 of 1973. In the case of companies active in the tourist sector, however, the minimum domestic participation was lowered to 15 per cent. February 5. The discount rate charged by PROEXPO under Monetary Board Resolution No. 87 of Decem- ber 20, 1974 was lowered from 6 per cent to 2 per cent per annum for maturities up to 180 days and from 8 per cent to 4 per cent per annum for longer maturities (Monetary Board Resolution No. 5). February 21. Presidential Decree No. 314 exempted from the payment of all customs duties imports of capi- tal goods and spare parts for the m in ing and petroleum sector, provided they were not available in the domestic market. February 24. In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 295 a commission was established to organize the gradual purchase by the Government or by Colombian private companies of a 51 per cent participation in foreign banks or their branches operating in Colombia. Subsequently, the following m in imum schedule for the transfer of ownership was set: 5 per cent of shares were to be sold to Colombian residents by December 31, 1975; 20 per cent by December 31, 1976; 40 per cent COLOMBIA by December 31, 1977; and 51 per cent by June 30, 1978 (see December 15, below). March 5. The minimum maturity for private sector capital imports under Monetary Board Resolution No. 73 of October 21, 1974 was lowered from five to three years, with max imum annual repayments permitted of one third instead of one fifth of principal. Subject to the additional requirement of a certification by the National Tourism Corporation, the foreign borrowing privilege was extended to cover working and investment capital needs of hotel and other service enterprises catering to international tourism (Monetary Board Reso- lution No. 7 ). Detailed regulations on foreign borrow- ing by the tourism industry were issued in the Exchange Control Office's General Circular No. 43 on Septem- ber 12. March 5. Except for newly established financial insti- tutions or those with low short-term foreign currency liabilities, the Bank of the Republic was instructed to reduce its time deposits in foreign currency with credit institutions in Colombia from a maximum of 20 per cent to 10 per cent of each institution's short-term liabilities. The time deposits would be made for three months and were renewable at the Bank's discretion. For each U.S. dollar of such deposits received from the Bank, the credit institutions were required to deposit Col$15 (previously, Col$8.50) with the Bank, free of interest. Time deposits in excess of 10 per cent of short- term foreign currency liabilities were to be withdrawn in six equal monthly installments beginning on March 30 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 8 ). March 5. With effect from March 13, the period w i th in which the 100 per cent advance payments deposit (deposito provisional) had to be lodged was reduced f rom 20 to 10 days prior to the submission of an appli- cation for an exchange license (Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 9 ). March 5. For commercial banks a maximum ratio of 10:1 between liabilities and paid-up capital and reserves was established. Banks whose liabilities exceeded this ratio were prohibited from accepting further liabilities in foreign exchange; they also had to reduce their liabili- ties to the public or increase their capital or legal reserves within 12 months, starting from April 1 (Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 10). March 5. The minimum surrender price per 70-kilo- gram bag of coffee was lowered from US$107.50 to US$100, with effect from March 14 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 12). March 16. In accordance with Decisions 57 and 57a of the Commission of the Cartagena Agreement, tariff reductions went into effect retroactively from January 1, 1975 on a number of items covered by the first of the Andean Pact's sectoral industrial development agree- ments on mechanical products (Presidential Decree No. 370). April 2. Imports made by automobile assembly and production plants within a biannual exchange budget 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA agreed with the Monetary Board were made subject to an advance import deposit (consignation) of 5 per cent of the registered value. Parts for assembly and repair of vehicles for public transportation remained exempt from the deposit requirement, as stipulated by Monetary Board Resolution No. 36 of June 26, 1974 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 16). April 16. With effect from April 21, the minimum surrender price per 70-kilogram bag of coffee was lowered further from US$100 to US$95.50 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 17). April 16. A rediscount line of US$10 million and available for use during one year was opened for PROEXPO to finance exports to Andean Pact countries under a credit agreement signed with the Andean Development Corporation (Monetary Board Resolution No. 18). April 17. The quantity of coffee to be surrendered to the National Federation of Coffee Growers was raised from 30 per cent to 35 per cent of the equivalent of the volume of excelso coffee that exporters wished to export (Presidential Decree No. 732). April 21. ECOPETROL was given the exclusive right of oil exploration and exploitation. Any subcontracts were to be made with ECOPETROL (Decree No. 743 of the Ministry of Mining and Petroleum). April 30. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to purchase until September 30, at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate, the exchange proceeds from for- eign loans intended exclusively to finance coffee sales. An adjustment would be made at the certificate market exchange rate prevailing either two months after the sale of the exchange or, if the latter occurred earlier, at the time of shipment. With effect from October 1, exporters would again receive the certificate market rate prevailing at the time of advance surrender (Monetary Board Resolution No. 21). May 5. Decree No. 844 stipulated that the price of crude oil which had to be sold for domestic refining was to be expressed in foreign currency. Twenty-five per cent of that price was to be paid in pesos, calculated at the exchange rate for petroleum. May 14. The maximum spread above the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate permit- ted for foreign financing, including suppliers' credits, was raised from August 6. With effect from August 8, PROEXPO'S credit line with the central bank for the refinancing of foreign currency credits granted by Colombian exporters to their foreign customers was increased by US$20 mil- lion. Acceptances, irrevocable letters of credit, and drafts covering export operations already effected could be rediscounted for generally 180 days at 2 per cent per annum if they were endorsed by a foreign bank of prime standing. For capital goods which required longer-term financing PROEXPO could, with central bank approval, discount export credit claims at more than 180 days' maturity at 4 per cent per annum (Monetary Board Resolution No. 42). August 6. With effect from August 11, the central bank opened a peso credit line for the equivalent of US$28 million so that PROEXPO could give credit to producers of textiles and garments for their purchase, at the certificate market rate, of foreign exchange to finance future exports. PROEXPO would extend one- year credits at 7 per cent per annum (Monetary Board Resolution No. 43). August 6. With effect from August 11, imports under the Vallejo Plan were exempted f rom the guarantee deposit required by Monetary Board Resolution No. 14 of March 1, 1974 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 44). August 20. With effect from September 1, the fixed exchange rate for crude oil was depreciated from Col$20.00 to Col$22.00 per US$1 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 47). September 1. The list of "minor imports" was revised. They could henceforth be imported free of registration, provided that the total ex-works value of a shipment did not exceed US$100 (Decree No. 1769 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). September 9. Fifty-four tariff items were shifted to the free import list (INCOMEX Resolution No. 040). In October the free import list was further extended by 14 tariff items (INCOMEX Resolution No. 046). September 17. With effect from October 1, the fixed exchange rate for crude oil was depreciated from Col$22.00 to Col$23.00 per US$1 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 53). September 17. With effect f rom October 1, the advance import deposit requirement was further reduced from 35 per cent to 32 per cent of the registered import value (Monetary Board Resolution No. 51). September 17. With effect from September 19, the minimum maturity of foreign loans to the private sector was raised from three years to five years, the minimum term in effect between November 2, 1974 and March 5, 1975. The minimum amortization schedule was tight- ened. Amortization of over one third of the loan could not take place before 24 months had elapsed, and amortization of over two thirds could take place after 42 months at the earliest (Monetary Board Resolution No. 50). October 1. In accordance with Ministry of Finance Decree No. 2366 of 1974 the tax on the c.i.f. value of COLOMBIA imports levied for the benefit of PROEXPO was increased from 3.5 per cent to 5.0 per cent. October 7. The validity of import registrations for agricultural products was reduced to three months and that for other items was reduced to six months. Merchandise had to be shipped within this period. Regis- trations could be extended by INCOMEX if application was made two months before expiration (Decision No. 47/75 of the Foreign Trade Council). October 8. With immediate effect, foreign loans to the private sector registered before September 18, 1975 could be partially or entirely repaid ahead of schedule. For loans registered on or after September 18, the mini- mum maturity of five years was maintained (Monetary Board Resolution No. 57). October 8. In order to obtain exchange licenses to pay for "minor imports," the commercial invoice had to be presented to the Exchange Office (Monetary Board Resolution No. 58). Regulations for customs clearance of "minor imports" were issued by General Customs Regulation No. 305 on October 23, 1975. October 8. With effect from October 13, the Bank of the Republic authorized commercial banks to effect certain remittances abroad without prior authorization, provided that supporting documents were submitted within two months of remittance. This liberalization measure affected import payments; debt service on regis- tered foreign loans to the private sector; bank commis- sions; interest on suppliers' credit; and shipping costs other than freight (Monetary Board Resolution No. 59). October 8. With effect from October 10, the Bank of the Republic ceased to buy in advance exchange obtained by exporters of cotton, bananas, meat, tobacco, and textiles. Henceforth, only definitive settlements would be made for these commodities (Monetary Board Resolution No. 60). This measure was repealed on October 29, 1975 by Monetary Board Resolution No. 63 (see below). October 23. With effect from October 24, the surren- der requirement for coffee was lowered from 35 per cent to 30 per cent of the equivalent of the volume of excelso coffee that exporters wished to export (Decree No. 2247 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). October 28. Books and many paper products were transferred to the free import list (Foreign Trade Coun- cil Resolution No. 048). October 29. With effect from November 1, the fixed exchange rate for crude oil was further depreciated from Col$23.00 to Col$24.00 per US$1 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 62). October 29. With effect from November 3, the advance import deposit requirement was further reduced from 32 per cent to 25 per cent of the registered import value (Monetary Board Resolution No. 63). (The requirement was later suspended with effect from Febru- ary 2, 1976.) October 29. With immediate effect, Monetary Board Resolution No. 60 of October 8 was repealed, which had 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA eliminated the advance exchange surrender fac i l i ty for exports of cotton, bananas, meat, tobacco, and textiles. This action re-established the regime of Monetary Board Resolution No. 86 of 1974 (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 63 ). October 29. The regulations of Monetary Board Resolution No. 81 of 1974 regarding exports under the Junior Vallejo Plan were modified with immed ia te effect. The Bank of the Republic would pay the exporter the full countervalue in pesos of the exchange surrendered. The amount of tax credit certificates issued by the Bank of the Republic would depend on the value added domes- tically, as established by INCOMEX (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 64). November 12. Colombia signed the declaration providing for its provisional accession to the GATT. November 17. Presidential Decree No. 1670 of 1975 regulating borrowing by the Government and official entities was amended. External loans of Col$10 million or more, or of US$500,000 or more, required prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and approval from the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government or loans w i th government guarantee the following were required in add i t ion: prior authori- zation by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation w i th the In te rpa r l iamen ta ry Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. External loans for lower amounts required only prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance (Presidential Decree No. 2449). November 19. With effect f rom November 20, a mar- ginal reserve requirement of 100 per cent was applied to any increase above the November 20 level in most deposit liabilities of the bank ing ins t i tu t ions; included among the liabilities affected were the deposits obtained from banks abroad (Monetary Board Resolution No. 65). November 19. With effect f rom November 20, the Bank of the Republic, when purchasing foreign exchange derived f rom loans to finance exports of cotton, bananas, and tobacco, applied the certificate market rate ruling at the time of definitive surrender. Previously, the Bank paid the exchange rate d ifferen t ial between initial pur- chase and final liquidation four months later, as stipu- lated in Monetary Board Resolution No. 86 of 1974; that regulation continued in effect for loans financing exports of textiles and meat (Mone tary Board Resolu- tion No. 66). November 19. With effect from December 1, the fixed exchange rate for crude oil was fu r ther depreciated f rom Col$24.00 to Col$25.00 per US$1 (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 69). November 19. The regulations governing the issue by the Bank of the Republic of exchange warran ts were modified. Maturities would be either six months or one year. Warrants could be sold to the public either directly by the Bank or through the commercial banks. The interest rate, to be paid in pesos every three months, 136 remained at 7 per cent per annum. As before, warrants were negotiable and could, during their validity, either be used for payments abroad or resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate ruling at the time of repur- chase. Af ter maturity, warrants ceased to bear interest or to be usable for foreign payments, but the Bank could still repurchase them at the certificate market rate in effect when they matured (Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 70). November 20. The Monetary Board instructed the Exchange Control Office to authorize (in addition to the permitted percentage for export commissions) payment of up to 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of Pharmaceuticals to cover their export costs (Monetary Board Communication No. 431). The Exchange Con- trol Office put this measure in to effect by General Circu- lar No. 63 of December 2. November 21. The Exchange Control Office stood ready to open revolving credits in foreign exchange for companies hav ing to make payments for imports under the Vallejo Plan before the corresponding export or exchange surrender took place (General Circular No. 61 of the Exchange Control O f f ice ). December 3. The Bank of the Republic was autho- rized to approve commercial banks' payments abroad in respect of dividends whose transfer was permissible under the rules governing foreign investments. Such payments would be governed by the conditions of Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 59 of October 8 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 73). December 5. The common minimum external tariff of the Andean Group was introduced with effect from January 1, 1976 (Decree No. 2677 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). December 17. The accounting exchange rate of the Bank of the Republic was changed from Col$26 to Col$30 per US$1, to be applicable for the first time to the balance sheet for December 1975 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 74). December 17. With effect from January 1, 1976 the fixed exchange rate for crude oil was further depre- ciated f rom Col$25 to Col$26 per US$1 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 75). December 19. The President signed into law Law No. 055. It regulated foreign participation in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions. New direct foreign investment in such institutions was prohibited unless it originated in member countries of the Cartagena Agreement and was destined for "national" or "mixed" companies, subject to reciprocal t rea tment for Colombian investment in those coun- tries. Foreign institutions or their branches had to be converted in to "mixed" companies with a minimum Colombian participation of 51 per cent. The Govern- ment could grant foreign institutions up to three years to effect the conversion. The Bank of the Republic, act- ing as a fiduciary holder, was to take over the shares and sell them to Colombian citizens with the prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA of the Superintendency of Banking. Each buyer could not acquire more than 5 per cent of total shares. For- eign institutions which refused to effect the conversion had to cease operations by December 31, 1976. The Monetary Board was empowered to regulate all banking operations regarding international trade, with a view to reserving them to domestic banks, and to supervise the activities of representatives of foreign banks without Colombian branches. December 17. With effect from December 22, and until December 31, 1976, the Exchange Office could grant exchange licenses for up to 95 per cent of the value of freight on imports and exports. For exports, registration had to be on a c.i.f. or c. & f. basis (Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 77 ). Implementing instruc- tions were issued in the Exchange Control Office's Gen- eral Circular No. 68 of December 23. December 17. With effect from December 22, the Bank of the Republic was authorized to raise its foreign currency time deposits with banks from 10 per cent to 20 per cent of each bank's short-term liabilities in for- eign currency. This re-established the maximum in effect prior to March 5, 1975. The peso deposit per US$1 of such time deposits remained, however, at Col$15 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 78). December 17. The six-month guarantee deposit of Col$10 per US$1 for travel exchange was abolished (Monetary Board Resolution No. 78). Implementing instructions were issued in the Exchange Control Office's General Circular No. 67 of December 23. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the People's Repub- lic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is offi- cially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to con- trol. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the People's Republic of the Congo. Payments to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (as well as the pur- chase of their banknotes and travelers checks) are sub- ject to a commission of 0.75 per cent, subject to a mini- mum of CFAF 75; exempt are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, the salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, the expenditures of offi- cial missions abroad, and the scholarships of persons studying or training abroad. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for foreign exchange purchased by Diamond Purchase Offices, 0.50 per cent; this commission also is subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. Administration of Control The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Com- 1 The CFA franc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 138 merce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the People's Republic of China are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All pay- ments to Portugal require the prior approval of the Min- istry of Finance. All settlements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspond- ents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require prior authorization. For imports of virtually all commodities from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France such authorization is given freely. All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program; the program also includes indicative quotas for a few commodities from EEC countries other than France. This program is determined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the Central Afri- can Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). Also outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral payments agreements and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (OFNACOM ). The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country out- side the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Bulgaria, North Korea, and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automatically. Imports from non-UDEAC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a cer- tain quantity of the local product (jumelage). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from the People's Republic of China. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the author- ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Congo in excess of CFAF 5,000 must be surrendered. For business travel to such foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Additional amounts of foreign exchange for business travel may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohib- ited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO make take out CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles, or ONCPA) or other state enterprises having an export monopoly. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital All capital movements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Movements of funds between Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free, although subject to declaration; most invest- ment operations and borrowing and lending between Congo and these countries are subject to authorization. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo 4 require the prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo must be declared to the Min- ister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Congo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment in Congo for which prior approval has been obtained as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. * Including those involving the cession between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained. In addition, lending to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in fore ign currencies when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and ( 3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973 (Ordi- nance No. 11/73), a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in Congo, gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, f rom or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BE AC and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1975 May 13. Decrees Nos. 75/237 and 75/239 prohib- ited imports of specified textiles, except when originat- ing in member countries of the UDEAC. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement. The parity between the CFA f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. November 22. Imports of salted fish, canned toma- toes, and salt became a monopoly of the OFNACOM. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0859580 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon. The Central Bank of Costa Rica buys and sells exchange in the off ic ial market at fixed rates of 0 8.54 and <fr 8.60, respectively, per US$1. Transactions with member countries of the Cen t ral American Common Market (CACM ), when settled through the Camara de Compensacion Cen t roame r icana (a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic in te- gration of their coun tr ies) are effected at a u n i f o rm buy- ing and selling rate of 0 8.57 per US$1. The Central Bank stands ready in principle to buy U.S. dollars fo r- ward at 90 days, at 0 8.39055 per US$1. Costa Rica fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell fo re ign exchange that is not subject to manda to ry sale to the banking system. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange t ransac t ions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement w i th that coun- try. Payments to El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and trade-related invisibles must be made in Costa R ican colones through the Camara de Compensacion Cen troamer icana. Pay- ments to Mexico in respect of trade and inv is ib les must also be made in Costa Rican colones th rough the clear- inghouse, in accordance w i th the Agreement on C lea r ing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the docu- ments must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing and all impo rt paymen ts may be made freely, subject to submission of evidence of prior registration (see be low ). However, cer ta in imports f rom CACM countries requ ire prior au tho r iza- tion, and imports made on a barter basis require a bar ter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the M in is t ry of Economy, Indus try, and Commerce. Impor ts f rom South Afr ica are prohibited in principle. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports valued at over US$300 must be registered w i th the Central Bank upon confirmation by the fore ign supplier. In addition to any applicable customs duty, there are levied on imports ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the com- mon external ta r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, f rom which certain essential i tems are exemp t; and ( 3) a selective consumption tax w i th a range of 10-100 per cent ad valorem on imports f rom outside the CACM and at lower rates on many CACM imports.1 There also exists a small consular tax on ce r ta in impo r ts. Fur thermore, most imports originat- ing outside the CACM are subject to an import sur- charge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for all sales of official foreign exchange for current invisibles; for certain travel exchange this approval is given by the Central Bank's representatives in the com- mercial banks, while in all other cases the approval must be sought f rom the Central Bank's Department of Inter- na t ional Transactions. Any physical or ju r id ical person may purchase, sub- ject to prior approval by the Central Bank, exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a remittance for any pur- pose and at any time, but not more of ten than once every six mon ths, and subject to submission of evidence as to purpose by the applicant. Foreign exchange for pr iva te travel may be purchased at agent banks up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for trips of ten days (US$100 a day for shorter t r i p s ), upon presentation of passport and travel tickets; agent banks may sell additional amoun ts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total addi- t ional amount of US$2,000 a person a trip, subject to presen ta t ion of evidence of the length of the stay abroad. Travel exchange in excess of US$3,000 a person a t r ip must be approved by the Department of International Transac t ions. Taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on rem i t tances abroad of divi- dends and in te res t; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., f rom government bank s) is exempt. Residents trave l ing abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus <Z 20 a t r ip; government officials, d ip loma ts, minors, and stu- dents are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- render must take place by sale to the Central Bank or an agent bank. Non t rad i t ional exports are entitled to tax 1 With e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 3, 1976 a tempo ra ry import surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad va lorem was levied on many goods; impor ts f rom CACM countries and Panama were exempt. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA credit certificates (CATs) corresponding to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which are freely negotiable.2 Licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In add i t ion to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- ments, mun i t ions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals ( f rom the M in is t ry of Economy, Indu s t ry, and Commerce); sugar (from the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); bear % rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle ( f rom the Na t ional Council of P roduc t ion ); a irp lanes ( f rom the Civil Aviation Boa rd ); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Mu seum ); tobacco ( f rom the Tobacco Defense Bo a rd ); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and an ima ls and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee ( f rom the Coffee O f f ice ); in addi- t ion, when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Cen tral Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited in principle. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered w i th in 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deduc t ing f rom the ir gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained dur ing the year f rom their transactions in Costa R ica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on their inves tment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. In te rnal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in for- eign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made dur ing the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on most t rad i t ional and nontraditional exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate w i th in 15 days of accrual, w i th the exception of the following, which may be retained and used as "free market exchange": diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expend i tu re; fam i ly remit- tances and other personal rem i t tances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the premium was paid through the free market; and commissions received by agents and representatives of foreign firms. Capital Inward transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Charter of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the t rans fer of interest, profits, and amor t iza t ion. Private outflows of foreign capital may be effected through the official market only if so registered. Incoming capital may be sold freely or retained by the recipient if it is fore ign capital that did not elect registration and sur- render at the off ic ial rate or if it is national capital returning from abroad. Agent banks have authority to sell foreign exchange at the official rate for repayments on certain private and public debts and certain amortiza- tion on registered fore ign capital. Registration is manda- tory only for public sector borrowing abroad and for government-guaranteed borrowing abroad. The state commercial banks require Central Bank approval to borrow abroad. By v ir tue of the Na t ional Planning Law, ministries and autonomous or semiautonomous organi- zations other than the commercial banks require the approval of the Office of P lann ing and Economic Policy before they may initiate steps to arrange any borrowing abroad. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may freely be deposited as time deposits with agent banks in the fo rm of specified foreign currencies 3 or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds may be retransferred abroad upon maturity at the official exchange rate. Outward transfers of na t ional capital are restricted. However, any physical or ju r id ical person may, sub- ject to prior Central Bank approval, purchase foreign exchange from agent banks, up to US$300 a remittance, for any purpose and at any time, but not more often than once every six mon ths and provided the purpose is indicated. Agent banks have authority to sell exchange for certain investment operations approved by the Min- istry of Economy, Indus try, and Commerce as well as the Central Bank. All other outward transfers of national capital require prior authorization by the Cen- tral Bank; it does not authorize these where there is no actual obligation abroad, or where, despite the existence of an actual obligation abroad, the Bank considers the transfer to be an unauthorized transfer of national capital. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the nation's monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its own Board. Private physical and jur id ical persons may nego- tiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. They may also hold gold in any fo rm in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or profes- sional users. Changes during 1975 January 1. The sales tax was increased from 5 per cent to 8 per cent. January 7. The rates of the selective consumption tax were raised f rom 10-50 per cent to 10-100 per cent 2 On January 26, 1976 a system of freely negotiable "certificates of increases in exports" (CIEX) was added. 3 Deutsche ma rk, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ad valorem on imports from outside the CACM; smaller increases were applicable to imports from CACM coun- tries. The list of goods affected by the tax was expanded (Decree No. 4432-H of December 24, 1974). January 15. All import orders in excess of US$300 became subject to prior registration With the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier. Evi- dence of registration had to be submitted before foreign exchange for import payments could be obtained. March 1. Central Bank regulations issued on Novem- ber 8, 1974 regarding installment sales and credit sales of goods and services came into effect. Imported goods and services covered by free trade treaties were treated in the same manner as those of national origin, while the goods affected had to be fully paid in cash when imported from outside the CACM. The transitional regulations of December 3, 1974, which accorded equal treatment to domestically produced and imported goods, were revoked. The new regulations were later extended to August 31, when they expired. April 26. Decree No. 4780-H set a new export price for bananas and increased the export tax on bananas. May 8. In Board Session No. 2992-75, the Central Bank eliminated the last multiple currency practices remaining after the unification of the dual exchange market by Law No. 5519 of April 24, 1974. They had resulted from the continuing application to certain trans- actions of the old official buying and selling rates of 0 6.62 and <2 6.68 per U.S. dollar. May 15. Decree No. 4833-H reduced the export tax on coffee from 5 per cent to 1 per cent. August 14. The Central Bank arranged a medium- term borrowing of US$30 million in the Euro-currency market. September 1. Decree No. 5154 provided for the pur- chase of all gasoline distributing companies by the Costa Rican Oil Refinery. November 25. Article 34 of the Regulations for the Application of the Ruling Exchange System was modi- fied, which had permitted any physical or juridical per- COSTA RICA son to purchase foreign exchange up to US$300 for any purpose and at any time, subject only to declaration of the purpose. Such purchases became subject to prior Central Bank approval and could not be made more often than once every six months. Prior authorization by the Central Bank also became required for the pur- chase by travelers of foreign exchange up to US$1,000 a person a trip. Higher amounts, up to a total additional amount of US$3,000 a person a trip, could still be obtained, subject to presentation to the Central Bank of evidence regarding the length of the stay abroad (Cen- tral Bank Board Session No. 3059-75 of November 18). November 28. The prior Central Bank approval for purchases of travel exchange up to US$3,000 a person a trip henceforth could be obtained from the Central Bank's representatives in the commercial banks. Subject to this approval, commercial banks could sell foreign exchange to travelers up to US$1,000 on presentation of passport and travel ticket, or, for trips of less than ten days, at the rate of US$100 a day. For trips of more than ten days, travelers could buy US$75 for each addi- tional day, up to a total additional amount of US$2,000, subject to presentation of evidence of length of stay. Applications for travel exchange in excess of US$3,000 a person a trip had to be submitted for approval to the Department of International Transactions. December 27. A Fund for the Promotion of Exports and Tourism was established (Central Bank Board Ses- sion No. 3075-75). December 27. With effect from January 3, 1976, a temporary import surcharge of 10-50 per cent ad valorem was applied to many goods; imports from CACM countries and Panama were exempt. The pro- ceeds of the surcharge would go to the Fund for the Promotion of Exports and Tourism (Central Bank Board Session No. 3075-75). December 27. With effect from January 5, 1976, Decree No. 5623-H increased the rates of selective con- sumption tax on many goods; the range of rates remained unchanged at 10-100 per cent. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Since July 9, 1973, the rate for the Cyprus pound has been adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the cur- rencies of the main trading partners of Cyprus. The Central Bank of Cyprus quotes daily buying and selling rates for deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 was US$2.5440 buying, and US$2.5410 selling, per <£C 1, and that for sterling was £ stg. 1.2600 buying, and £ stg. 1.2550 selling, per «£C 1. The Central Bank quotes indicative rates for a number of other currencies as well. Furthermore, the Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in cover of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applica- tions for the allocation of foreign exchange w i th in the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank has been delegated to the authorized dealers. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Mar- keting Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with clearing countries J must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated either in pounds sterling or in U.S. dollars. Payments to countries other than the clearing countries (except Rhodesia) may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign cur- rency 2 other than Rhodesian currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 144 Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rhodesia may ma in ta in with authorized banks nonresi- dent accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign currency deposit accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from resi- dents of Cyprus, with transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel pur- poses to nonresident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the United Nations forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of <£C 50 a t r ip ). Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rho- desia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charit- able institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level deter- mined f rom time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release to each nonresident holder of blocked funds up to <£C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslova- kia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and North ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Viet-Nam. For protective reasons, certain goods (such as some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial mach inery) may not be imported freely; for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are licensed in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and/or payments agreements. With respect to Albania, North Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam, no formal trading arrangements exist but certain barter transactions take place f rom time to time. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to £C 10 in value, for returned goods, or for certain spe- cial import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made freely af ter arrival (where documents are received on a collection basis) or after receipt of shipping docu- ments (where payment is made under a documentary credit). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, a f ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable a f ter deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is <£C 700 a year, and the upper limit is is <£C 2,200 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East (defined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, etc., except Lebanon), <£C 700; in Lebanon, «£C 1,000; in the United States and Canada, «£C 2,200; in other countries, <£C 1,500. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on presentation of documentary evidence. However, allow- ances normally are granted only for study at colleges, universities, or comparable institutions. For tourist travel, the limit is <£C 150 a person annually; for busi- ness travel <£C 20 to <£C 40 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £C 50, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Non- resident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. CYPRUS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 75 to ensure repatriation of the sales pro- ceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in all currencies must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in all currencies must be sold to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward portfolio investment is not normally permitted, and only specified types of outward direct investment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible for- eign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside Cyprus, and Cypriots who emigrate, may trans- fer abroad up to <£C 1,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate also is limited to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission f rom the authorities. In prin- ciple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Foreign l ife insurance policies not cov- ered by the Insurance Law must be deposited with an authorized dealer. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreement with Poland, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The annual basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which had been reduced in August 1974, was continued unchanged at «£C 150 a person a year; additional amounts were not normally granted. February 17. An export guarantee scheme and an export credit insurance scheme came into operation. May 16. Imports of a small number of commodities, including yarn of synthetic material not produced for retail trade and knitted fabrics, were made subject to specific license for protective reasons. Certain items mainly produced in the area outside the control of the Cypriot Government ceased to require an import license. May 26. Holders of foreign life insurance policies not covered by the Insurance Law were required to deposit their policies with authorized dealers before they could make premium payments abroad. July 11. A tax amnesty was granted in respect of residents' undeclared funds and capital assets abroad, provided the funds or the proceeds of the assets were transferred to Cyprus by December 31, 1976. In addi- tion, where such monies were placed on deposit with any bank in Cyprus, the interest would be exempt from income tax for five years. July 11. For an initial period of five years, and for such additional period as the Council of Ministers might determine, the equivalent of 3 per cent of the repatri- ated foreign exchange proceeds from exports could be offset against the producer's taxable income. Similar privileges were granted in respect of 30 per cent of repatriated exchange proceeds from professional services rendered abroad and 90 per cent of repatriated exchange proceeds from labor performed for private firms abroad. July 11. Income earned abroad by aliens resident in Cyprus was exempted from "emergency relief" taxation. The same applied to certain unearned foreign income of alien residents, viz., interest on capital already exempt from income tax. July 11. Import duties on a number of luxury goods and other nonessential items were increased. July 31. The indicative limits on foreign exchange allocations for higher education abroad in the "other countries" category were increased from <£C 1,400 to <£C 1,500 a year. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 57, 7975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone. The central rate is DKr 6.28205 = US$1, and Denmark avails itself of wider margins. Denmark maintains a maximum margin of 21A per cent for rates in spot exchange transactions in the offi- cial exchange market between the Danish krone and the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Nor- wegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are maintained for any other currency. Market rates are quoted daily for the 17 currencies that are used most often.1 On December 31, 1975, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DKr 6.1735 and DKr 6.1815, respectively, per US$1. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place within two banking days; transactions which mature in three bank- ing days or more are defined as forward transactions. Spot transactions in all currencies, including Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies, may be concluded freely with domestic and foreign banks. Forward transactions which involve Danish kro- ner may also be concluded, but only with a ma tur i ty of up to two years; furthermore, special rules apply for the forward sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward deal- ings against Danish kroner with nonresident customers. Forward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces, but the National Bank of Denmark (the central bank) has f rom time to time sold U.S. dollars forward to authorized banks. Forward transactions with residents which involve Danish kroner must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the pay- ments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Forward transactions with resident customers which do not involve Danish kroner but the purchase of one foreign currency against another, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the require- ments with respect to contractual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canadian dol- lars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises the southern part of Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange con- trol authority. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some of the stock exchange brokers who are mem- bers of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to individual trans- actions and transfers of DKr 3,000 or less. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Den- mark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Com- merce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. For pay- ments to and from Rhodesia, however, special rules are applied for security reasons, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts and South Rhodesian Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EEC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, including persons who are or have been of Danish nationality, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresident does not exceed DKr 75,000; any amount in excess of DKr 75,000 must be transferred abroad within two days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for nonresidents provided they are only credited with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital,, pen- sions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK South Rhodesian Accounts are kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licensing from all sources. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased f rom member countries of the EEC are a few agricultural products and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non- EEC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. No licenses are granted for the importation of goods originating in or purchased in Rhodesia. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rho- desia is prohibited. With this exception, payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within five years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commer- cial practice in the line of business concerned. Repay- ments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the t r ad e ). How- ever, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if any discount is obtained as a result, provided the pay- ment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepay- ments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity with normal commercial practice for the particular line of business, may be granted to nonresi- dents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of performance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installa- tions) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments by residents, including foreign nationals temporarily work- ing in Denmark, for most invisibles to be made freely, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the t rade ); only in a few cases is approval from the National Bank required. Authorized banks are empow- ered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and 148 the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Transfers of up to DKr 3,000 for any per- mitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country except Rhodesia, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 3,000. All transactions not included in a list of current transactions are considered capital transactions. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or edu- cational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 3,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may in addition export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited with the exception of products intended for strictly medical purposes, edu- cational material or other equipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. The only com- modity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EEC is gold. With respect to other destinations, except for certain items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals, crude oil and some oil products, and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within 30 days to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a maximum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of mem- ber countries of the EEC is based on the rules of the EEC's directives on capital movements, subject to cer- tain transitional arrangements, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world (except Rho- desia) as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquida- tion of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tur i ty, or to repur- chase any Danish securities denom ina ted exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad), to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and so forth, or to a member of the resident's fam i ly, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a sub- scription right to shares or the like owned by the resi- dent concerned or provided that the resident furn ishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months f rom the sale of foreign securi- ties to a nonresident. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in connec- tion with direct investments in most industries (equity capital or loan capital) or with the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 100,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital, DKr 200,000 for direct investments of loan capital, and DKr 60,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes (DKr 150,000 for health reasons). Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accor- dance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The private acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 normally is approved in accordance with Denmark's obligation as a member of the EEC. Normal loans and credits granted by export- ers or banks and made in connection with the sale of goods or services are permitted in connection with sales of capital goods for periods up to five years. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other trans- fers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. Funds exceeding these amounts must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the fo rm of equity capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment concerns industry, trade in goods, hand icraf ts, the DENMARK hotel business, travel agencies, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 100,000 in each calendar year. Inward direct investments with loan capital also are exempt from special license w i th in certain limits. Other direct invest- ment by nonresidents requires permission from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresi- dent of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents (including persons who are or have been Danish nationals) of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license. Bonds denominated only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not repre- sent a direct investment and is not being made with a view to subsequent direct investment in the company concerned; this liberalization does not apply to certifi- cates of investment companies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of their assets are securities other than stock exchange securities. Nonresidents may freely grant credits for up to five years to residents to finance purchases of commodities and services abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services, pro- vided the credit is in conformity with commercial prac- tice in the trade concerned. They may, further, grant loans of up to DKr 20 million a borrower in a calendar year to enterprises in most industries, provided that the maturity is at least five years and that the entire pro- ceeds are used only to finance expenditures made within 6 months prior to the date the loan is contracted or to be made w i th in 12 months following that date, for the establishment, expansion, or equipment of the bor- rower's own business and /or industrial premises and for the acquisition of plant, machinery, and transport equipment to be used for its own business and/or indus- trial activities. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a calendar year to members of the nonresident's family. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special per- mission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrow- ing is subject to control by the competent executive depar tment of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated persons are permitted freely, irrespec- tive of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on autho- rized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in full more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the customary date in the trade. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 3,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives as a rule require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lations, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. The net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers is subject to limitation. For any individual bank, this position must not be negative, except in accordance with the following. For all banks collectively, a "frame" has been established of DKr 600 million (until fur ther notice). This total has been sub- divided into individual "frames" for those banks inter- ested. The latter may incur a negative net "commercial" foreign position, insofar as this results from the taking up of foreign currency loans and credits for purposes of on-lending in foreign currency to customers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. Bank advances to cus- tomers financed by foreign credit taken up under these "frame" arrangements are exempt from the credit ceil- ing to which the bank concerned is subject; such advances to customers must be used only for purposes permitted by the exchange control regulations. A posi- tive net "commercial" foreign position is in principle allowed only as long as it does not exceed the higher of the following amounts —DKr 2 million or 15 per cent of the capital and reserves of the individual bank con- cerned. The National Bank has granted a number of exemptions from this rule. Such exemptions are granted only when necessary for the individual bank to cover a net short position in the forward market which could not otherwise be covered. Banks are not normally per- mitted to borrow abroad for their own account at medium or long term. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in 150 Denmark; they may also import gold coins. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 9.25 per cent but not to customs duty. Domestic transactions also are taxed at a rate of 9.25 per cent.2 Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, processed vege- tables, flowers, or electronic calculators. January 1. Further tariff reductions under the Treaty of Accession to the EEC came into force. January 1. An exchange rate insurance scheme for long-term export credits came into force. January 1. The Banking Law of April 2, 1974 came into effect. One of its provisions made it possible for foreign banks to be established in Denmark. January 1. Savings banks could be appointed as authorized exchange dealers. January 1. The Japanese yen was included among the currencies for which authorized banks quote daily market rates. April 1. An export credit institution, the Danish Export Finance Fund, formed by the National Bank in cooperation with the commercial banks, began opera- tions. It provided up to 100 per cent cover against credits with a maturity of lVi-5 years after delivery or shipment, with provision for extension in special cases. May 15. The ceiling on the negative net "commer- cial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers was raised from DKr 400 million to DKr 600 million. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 12. An amendment to the Danish Trust Fund Act was passed raising the ceiling on export guarantees and sureties from DKr 15 billion to DKr 22 billion. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement; accordingly, Den- 2 The general rate of value-added tax is to be restored to 15 per cent with effect from March 1, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mark again observed max imum margins of 21A per cent for the French franc. September 29. The value-added tax was reduced until February 29, 1976 from 15 per cent to 9.25 per cent; the reduction was applicable also to imported goods other than automobiles and gasoline. November 3. The National Bank began to issue to banks and the public 91-day certificates of deposit denominated in Danish kroner. Since these were con- sidered to be money market securities, they could not be acquired by nonresidents. December 11. The restrictions on nonbank residents' forward exchange transactions were relaxed. The maxi- mum term for transactions involving the trading of for- eign currency against domestic currency was increased from one year to two years. The rules governing trans- actions between foreign currencies were eased in several ways. The ceiling on the maximum term of these trans- actions was abolished, so that claims and liabilities in DENMARK foreign currencies could be covered against any other foreign currency until maturity. Furthermore, the requirement that underlying claims should be in the currency sold and underlying liabilities in the currency bought, v/as eased so that it became sufficient that either a claim or a liability was denominated in the currency sold or purchased. This enabled residents to cover a position in a certain foreign currency against any other foreign currency until the maturity of the covered out- standing balance. December 18. The Government entered into a stand- by Euro-currency loan agreement for the equivalent of US$300 million. December 29. The rule that spot transactions between Danish and foreign banks needed approval from the National Bank when they comprised amounts exceeding DKr 1 million for delivery in less than two days was abolished. Transactions maturing in three days or more were considered to be forward transactions. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso. The currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Cen- tral Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of %2 of 1 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of 1A of 1 per cent buying and V2 of 1 per cent selling. Different effective exchange rates may arise from the requirement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for certain imports. With the exception of payments for imports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, all payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commer- cial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. There is a tolerated parallel exchange market. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is admin- istered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board establishes import quotas, which are administered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Certain releases of foreign exchange require the express authorization of the President of the Republic. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settle- ments with Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Vene- zuela may be effected through special accounts estab- lished under reciprocal credit agreements.1 Import pay- ments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of many goods are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted to quotas. All 1 Under these agreements, import collections and other payments to the partner countries are settled promptly. 152 commodities are exempt from quota and prohibition when they are financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; such imports are also exempt from prepay- ment of import taxes and surcharges. Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities, however, for reasons of health or security. The import controls involve exchange allocations; in addition, releases of official foreign exchange dur ing 1975 were subject in principle to a ceiling of RD$800 million. All payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the importer's own exchange. Insurance on imports must be effected with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Commodities subject to quantitative restrictions (other than restrictions resulting from the RD$800 million ceil- ing) can be imported and settled with official exchange only against a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same requirement applies to some other goods that are not subject to quantitative restrictions, including many types of smoked, dried, or canned fish, Venetian blinds, some perfumes and cosmetics, and certain construction mate- rials. Some other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The com- mercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all imports against letters of credit. Af ter the Central Bank approves an application, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial banks for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is for- warded to the Central Bank after they have been nego- tiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available within not more than five working days from the receipt of the application. Most imports are subject to an internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. Virtually all imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos infernos) ranging f rom 10 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is given only after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel and for insurance premiums is suspended. Allowances for fam i ly remittances and medical expenses are rarely granted. Residents are not prevented, how- ever, from purchasing exchange for travel purposes and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution personal remittances in the parallel market. Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200 or f rom RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonresident foreign nationals work ing in the Domini- can Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic development may remit abroad for any purpose up to 60 per cent of their salaries. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$250 for Spain, up to US$300 for other European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a month, irrespective of country, is available for post- graduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tu i t ion, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in con- form i ty with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted only in respect of foreign investments that have been registered in the Central Bank and cannot exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional invest- ment, including reinvested profits. The Monetary Board, however, is empowered to authorize remittances in excess of 18 per cent when investments are deemed bene- ficial to the Dominican economy. Dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent. In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days f rom receipt of the application. Travelers are not permitted to take w i th them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of receiving pay- ment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank for- eign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange sur- render, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices published by the Central Bank. Exempt from the exchange surrender requirements are foreign mining companies, and firms operating in indus- trial free zones, which are only required to convert suffi- cient foreign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special committee. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days f rom the date of shipment without authorization by the Central Bank. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capi- tal remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and converted into pesos at that Bank. Registered for- eign direct investments are eligible for remittances of profits and dividends. Registration is permitted for investments in agriculture, livestock, mining, manufac- turing, tourism, transportation and communications, and finance companies. The Monetary Board may, how- ever, permit the registration of other investments when deemed beneficial to the economic development of the country. Registration may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of out- ward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual install- ments. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not norma l ly approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1975 February 27. Presidential Decree No. 603 established a ceiling of RD$800 million on foreign exchange sales by the Central Bank du r ing 1975 (payments arising from 1974 transactions were deemed excluded from the ceil- ing ). All foreign exchange earnings in excess of the ceiling were to be deposited in a special account at the Central Bank, to be used only with the express authori- zation of the President of the Republic. The Monetary Board was charged w i th the allocation of the RD$800 million. The Central Bank was required to inform the Minister of Finance, within the first five days of each month, of the exchange payments made in the previous 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC month. Official foreign exchange could no longer be granted for imports of passenger cars, alcoholic bever- ages, electrical domestic appliances, or textiles. February 27. Sales of official exchange were sus- pended for about two weeks. June 18. The President announced a number of austerity measures already taken or under consideration. Among the latter was a proposed ban on the import of luxu ry goods. August 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Chile came into operation, December 13. Monetary Board Resolution No. 3 extended the system of import controls until Decem- ber 31, 1976. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency of Ecuador is the Sucre. On Febru- ary 26, 1973 a central rate of S/ 25.00 = US$1 was established, corresponding at the time to 0.0294665 gram of fine gold per sucre. There are two exchange markets. In the official mar- ket the Central Bank of Ecuador ma in ta ins rates of S/ 24.80 buying, and S/ 24.95 selling, per U.S. dollar, which apply to export proceeds, import payments (except for printed matter), certain invisible and capital trans- actions, and most transactions by the Government or public entities; however, the exchange transactions of the private petroleum companies must be conducted with the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent, buying and selling. Pro- ceeds from loans granted by international agencies to the Government and to public institutions also are con- verted at the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, but are exempt from the 1 per cent exchange tax. All other transactions take place in a free market where the rate fluctuates according to supply and demand but in which the Central Bank intervenes. Transactions eligible for the free market may alternatively be effected at the Central Bank, at its official market buying and selling rates. Applications for the purchase of foreign exchange in excess of US$10,000 at the official rate must be sup- ported by documentary evidence regarding the intended use. Loans taken up abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 2 per cent for maturities under one year to 6 per cent for maturities over 30 months. Exempt from this tax are (1) credits from foreign governments and international financial organizations; (2) credits granted to public and semipublic agencies; (3) invest- ment credits for the agricultural and fishing sectors with a ma tur i ty exceeding three years; (4) credits with a maturity exceeding three years for the importation of machinery and capital goods; and (5) suppliers' credits which do not involve an inflow of foreign exchange. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement,, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to shift trans- actions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and super- vision of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports which enter as part of a direct invest- ment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Integration and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, by the Ministry of Finance. However, all applications for import licenses by industrial firms must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Council. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds f rom other countries must be received in con- vertible currencies. Whenever possible, import pay- ments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (Group A) and semiessential goods (Group B ), and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not in- cluded in these two lists are prohibited; in addition, imports of passenger automobiles and certain other vehicles are suspended. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the exceptions specified below. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and pr in ted or recorded music may be imported freely with- out a license or consular invoice; payments have to be made through the free market. Medicine and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 c.i.f. or less (US$500 f.o.b. or less for goods shipped by a ir). A few goods may be imported only from LAFTA coun- tries, and some only from Paraguay; with these excep- tions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayments of 80 per cent of import duties have been made, that an advance deposit has been made, and that a certificate is submitted show- ing that the insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping docu- ments; advance payments for imports are prohibited. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or lift import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. Many imports are subject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit, which must be maintained for 180 days, is 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II and 20 per cent for goods on List I-B. Most imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent gifts or foreign loans. Many goods in List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These invisibles are in principle limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank, payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at uni- versities abroad. Interest payments at the official rate may not exceed 3 percentage points over the prime rate in the country of the lender or exporter, and remittances of dividends and profits at the official rate may not exceed 14 per cent of the registered value of the invest- ment. With respect to loans to petroleum companies only, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in work- ing capital. There are also limits on student allowances eligible for the official rate; these range f rom US$300 to US$450 a month, depending on the type of study and on the country involved. All other payments for current invisibles, including travel expenditure, must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no l im i ta t ions on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents trave l ing abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for departure from Ecuador and 4 per cent for the return trip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure, among other things, the full surrender of the exchange proceeds to 156 the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of bananas to help ensure the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petro- leum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain exports are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. An export tax of 15 per cent is levied on crude petro- leum, one of 12 per cent on sugar, and one of 10 per cent on cocoa beans; exports of coffee beans are subject to a sliding-scale tax which ranges from 2.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Certain exports exempted f rom the ad valorem export taxes receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The subsidy is received in the fo rm of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. There are other export taxes in addition to those men- tioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, inc lud ing those from travelers, may be sold in the free marke t. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may b r ing in. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free marke t. For all outward transfers through the official market in excess of US$10,000 documentation as to the purpose must be submitted to the Central Bank. Outward transfers through the official market are restricted. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax rang ing from 2 per cent to 6 per cent (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered w i th the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industries, Com- merce, and Integration and of the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investment for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must docu- ment that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amor t iza t ion. For foreign capital entering in the form of mach ine ry and equ ipmen t, the investor must docu- ment th at the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimburs- able" import. Add i t iona l ly, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification from the appropriate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recom- mendation to the General Management of the Central ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration in the official market and all pertinent docu- mentation. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Manage- ment of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all docu- mentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all foreign loans, how- ever, registration for statistical purposes is mandatory. In the case of suppliers' credits and similar credit for financing the importation of merchandise, no special registration procedure is required; all the pertinent information on terms of payments, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for purchase of exchange for remittance of interest, charges, and scheduled amortization. Foreign nationals are pro- hibited from owning rural properties and f rom owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecua- dor's coastline or borders. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the banana industry, in domestic wholesaling and retailing, and in real estate development is also prohibited. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of foreign investment f rom Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments which have completed the registration procedure for foreign exchange purposes. For invest- ments registered on a provisional basis, no profits may be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the limit (14 per cent a year) specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to maintain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold content represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of non- monetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Imports ECUADOR of gold for the production of jewelry are treated as List II imports. Gold bars are exempt from import duty, while that on semiworked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1975 January L Decree No. 1353-A of December 31, 1974 came into force. Among other things, it required companies to convert their bearer shares into nomi- native shares by March 13, 1975. January 13. Inward direct and portfolio investment in banking and finance companies were prohibited, as was inward direct investment in domestic wholesaling and retailing of imported goods, banana production, and real estate development (Resolutions Nos. R-01, R-02, and R-03 of the Superior Foreign Trade Council). January 13. Direct foreign investment to establish branches in Ecuador was only permitted for tempo- rary activities. Investment in other firms of the profits of firms with foreign capital participation could be authorized as foreign direct investments (Resolutions Nos. R-04 and R-05 of the Superior Foreign Trade Council). January 17. Import duties on many textiles were increased (Decision No. 18 of the Ministry of Finance). January 24. Exports of cocoa beans became subject to the basic export tax of 10 per cent and to a supple- mental export duty of 15 per cent. January 24. Access by firms with foreign capital par- ticipation to overdraft facilities in foreign currency was restricted to firms holding current accounts in foreign exchange with domestic banks; such overdrafts could not exceed 3 per cent of the average six-monthly balance in the accounts concerned (Resolution No. 75-287 of the Superintendent of Bank ing ). February 4. New regulations for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons were issued (Decree No. 57). March 5. The prescribed maximum surrender peri- ods for export proceeds were modified. The new t ime limits (af ter the date of shipment specified in the export license) were 60 days for coffee, cocoa, bananas, and unprocessed seafood; 180 days for other primary products; and 360 days for manufactured goods and hand icraft products. These rules were not applicable to hydrocarbons or to cash sales; for the latter, exporters had to sell the foreign exchange at the latest 30 days after shipment (Monetary Board Resolution No. 761). April 14. The Hydrocarbons Law of August 6, 1974 was amended (Decree No. 286). May 14. Foreign investments in Ecuador made with- out prior authorization and foreign credits contracted after June 30, 1971 that had not been registered, had to be registered with the Superior Foreign Trade Coun- cil within 120 days (Decree No. 387). May 16. Exports of coffee by specified producers (agricultural cooperatives in which individual holdings 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR did not exceed 20 hectares) were exempted f rom the export tax of 15 per cent. In June this exemption was made general, by extension to all other coffee coopera- tives, their regional associations, and the National Federation of Coffee Cooperatives. June 2. Imports of passenger automobiles, light pickup trucks, and certain other motor vehicles were prohibited until August 31 (MBR No. 774 ). On August 21 the ban was extended to December 31 (MBR No. 784). It was fu r ther extended until March 31, 1976 by MBR No. 819, and until September 30, 1976 by MBR No. 854. July L The 15 per cent export tax on coffee was replaced by a sliding-scale tax which ranged from 2.5 per cent to 15 per cent, according to the f.o.b. price in U.S. dollars of the grades concerned (Decree No. 541-A). July 8. The tax-paid cost of crude petroleum was reduced by US$0.43 a barrel (Decrees Nos. 569 and 570). An increase of US$0.40, retroactive to October 1, was made on November 21 (Decree No. 982 ). August 21. Advance payments for imports were pro- hibited (MBR No. 785). On December 22 it was specified that this prohibition related to the private sector only. August 21. The classification of permitted imports was revised. Many goods were transferred from List I (essential items) to List II (less essential i t em s ); among these was gold for the manu fac tu re of jewelry. A num- ber of items were deleted from the lists, inc lud ing foot- wear, sugar, pepper, and certain cigarettes; they ceased to be permitted imports (MBR No. 786). August 22. A surcharge of 60 per cent of the c.i.f. value was imposed on imports of goods on List II. A surcharge inversely related to the payment period and ranging from 5 to 25 per cent was imposed on capital goods in List I when having 360 days or less of external financing; advance payment for such capital goods was prohibited. The principal exemptions f rom the sur- charges were for goods on the National List for LAFTA or the Special List for Paraguay, and for goods covered by decisions of the Cartagena Agreement Commission (Decree No. 738). August 22. The max imum rema in ing ma tur i ty of export bills eligible for rediscounting at the Central Bank was increased to 360 days. The access of the Export Promotion Fund (FopEx) to Central Bank advances was eased (MBR No. 787 ). September 11. The 60 per cent import surcharge on goods in List II was reduced to 30 per cent ad valorem. The surcharge on imports of capital goods was abol- ished. Imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital goods by industries covered by the indus- trial incentives legislation were declared exempt from the 30 per cent surcharge. A number of import 158 items were retransferred from List II to List I (Decree No. 786). September 11. A fu r ther reclassification of permitted imports took place. List I was divided into two parts, Group A (essential items) and Group B (semiessential i tem s ). A large number of items were transferred from List II to List I-B (MBR No. 790). September 11. Advance import deposit requirements were reintroduced. The rate of deposit was 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II and 20 per cent for goods in Group B of List I. The deposits were to be ma in ta ined for 180 days. Industries covered by the indus tr ial incentives legislation were exempt. Imports for public sector investments financed with international credits also were exempt (MBR No. 788 ). September 11. Duties, taxes, and other charges on exports were henceforth collected by the Central Bank at the time of issuing the export license if the goods were sold on deferred payment terms, and either at the time of payment or w i th in 30 days of shipment if they were sold on a cash basis (Decree No. 784). September 11. The approval and control functions of the Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Integra- t ion, the Central Bank, the Superintendency of Bank- ing, and the Superintendency of Companies with respect to foreign direct investment, transforma t ion agreements, and foreign credits were specified. A Foreign Invest- ment Council was created. It took over the duties of the Superior Foreign Trade Council with respect to foreign investment in Ecuador. The position of invest- ments and loans that had entered the country without au thor iza t ion or registration had to be regularized by December 12. Decree No. 887 of August 30, 1974 was revoked (Decree No. 788). September 11. The exemptions f rom the surcharge requ iremen ts, as amended by Decree No. 786, were specified (Decree No. 789). September 30. The conditions were specified under which banks or insurance companies with foreign capital participation could increase their capital. Direct foreign inves tment in the establishment of new commercial banks or insurance companies was prohibited. Resolu- tion No. 1 of Janua ry 31, 1975 of the Superior Foreign Trade Council was revoked (Resolution No. 849 of the Minister of Indus tr ies, Commerce, and In tegra t ion). October 1. Additional exemptions from the import surcharge and the advance deposit requirement were granted (MBRs Nos. 793 and 794). October 1. A fur ther 15 import items were trans- ferred from List II to List I-B (MBR No. 795). Fur ther transfers between import lists took place on October 8, October 22, and November 12 (MBRs Nos. 798, 801, and 806). October 10. Direct foreign investment in new finance companies could be authorized up to 25 per cent of the capital for those in Quito and Guayaquil, and up ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR to 49 per cent of the capital for companies to be estab- lished in other cities (Resolution No. 850 of the Min- ister of Industries, Commerce, and Integration). October 31. Regulations regarding reinvestment of profits under Decision 24 of the Cartagena Agreement were issued (Resolution No. 940 of the Minister of Industries, Commerce, and Integration). December 1. Firms considered as foreign firms in terms of Decision 24 of the Cartagena Agreement required prior approval in order to participate in the capital of national firms. They could in no case par- ticipate in the capital of banks, insurance companies, or finance companies. Prior approval was not required where the foreign firm's participation would not exceed 10 per cent of the capital of a firm to be established or of a capital increase that an existing firm was under- taking. Resolution No. R-05 of the Superior Foreign Trade Council was revoked (Resolution No. 1012 of the Minister of Industries, Commerce, and Integration). December 24. The registration deadline of Decree No. 387 (see above) was extended until March 31, 1976 (Decree No. 1080). 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the Arab Republic of Egypt with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.55555. The Central Bank of Egypt's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were LE 0.391305 and LE 0.395218, respectively, per US$1. Rates of exchange in a parallel market are determined in the light of prevailing foreign exchange considerations. On December 31, 1975 these rates involved a 50 per cent premium (buy ing) and a 55 per cent surcharge (selling) on the official buying rate, resulting in buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of LE 0.586957 and LE 0.606522, respectively, per US$1.1 Official rates for 15 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New York.2 Parallel market rates for these currencies are determined by adding the 50 per cent premium or the 55 per cent sur- charge. Forward cover in the official exchange market is available for foreign trade transactions, at a charge of 2 per cent. Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for transactions effected through the parallel exchange market or for balances held in speci- fied foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Commit- tee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Min- ister of Finance. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the Minister of Finance, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. Exchange control is implemented under the supervision and instructions of the First Undersecretary of State for Foreign Exchange, Foreign Budget and Finance, and the Director of Exchange Operations. The technical work of exchange control is performed by the Exchange Control Adm in is tra t ion attached to the afore-mentioned First Undersecretary. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange trans- effect f rom February 19, 1976 the premium and surcharge were raised to 65 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively, resulting in buy ing and selling rates of LE 0.645653 and LE 0.665218, respectively, per US$1. 2 Listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 160 actions, within the framework of a general authoriza- tion, without need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Trade supervises imports and exports. Imports are controlled by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Many imports and exports are carried out by public sector companies.3 Prescription of Currency Payments for imports normally may be made only to the country of origin. Payments to residents of countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible currency;2 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appro- priate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Exchange Control Administration. Receipts other than those in respect of raw cotton exports may be accepted in the currency of the payor's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Exchange Control Administration. By virtue of a joint decision of the Central Bank and the General Organization of Egyptian Cotton, the proceeds from exports of raw cotton to con- vertible currency countries must be received in deutsche mark or Swiss francs, or, if that currency is acceptable to the Exchange Control Administration, the convertible currency of the importing country. Settlements with countries with which Egypt has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.4 However, payment for "own exchange" imports f rom such countries may be made in convertible currencies. Certain settlements with coun- tries with which indemn i ty agreements concerning com- pensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, External Non- resident Accounts, or Free Nonresident Accounts. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency and balances are retransferable abroad. 3 With effect f rom January 1, 1976, Port Said City became a free zone. 4 On December 31, 1975, Egypt had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, North Korea, Mongolia, Morocco, Poland, Romania, Sudan, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and Yemen Arab Republic. In addition, for the financing of t rade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central banks of Ghana, Gu inea, Ind ia, Jordan, Mali, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Turkey. There is also a special payments arrangement at the commer- cial bank level with Bangladesh. With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976, settlements with Hungary, Iraq, and Poland were placed on a convert- ible currency basis, the payments agreements with these countries having expired on December 31, 1975. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agree- ments concluded with certain countries, there are five main types of nonresident accounts in Egyptian pounds: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, Nonresident D Accounts, Convertible Egyptian Pound Accounts, and Goods Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence, and by international organizations with head- quarters in Egypt. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts; for transfers to Nonresident C or D Accounts, or to External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been trans- ferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresi- dent Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Exchange Control Administration. They may be debited, subject to exchange control approval, for payments due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements); for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; for transfers to Nonresi- dent D Accounts; and for payments abroad in converti- ble currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 4). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to that of any other country may not be made without exchange control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Non- resident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and—provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. EGYPT Convertible Egyptian Pound Accounts may be opened by nonresident juridical or physical persons and by Egyptian physical persons regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes. These accounts may be credited with the domestic currency equivalent of foreign currency transferred from abroad, based on parallel market rates. They may be debited for payments in Egypt eligible for the parallel market, payments for Egyptian exports eligible for that market, and transfers abroad in convertible currency. Goods Accounts may be maintained by virtue of Law No. 137 of November 26, 1974 to be credited with the value of goods supplied to residents in accord- ance with Article 5 of Ministerial Order No. 64 of 1974. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly in Egypt. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in Egyptian Government loans or in registered shares in nominative form of com- panies established in Egypt, and for subscriptions to increases in capital of Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such investments may be remitted to the nonresi- dent beneficiary. Blocked accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for amounts not exceeding LE 1,000 a year for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities, payments to residents for services rendered, and expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees or repre- sentatives in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currency may be held by nonresident physical or juridical persons; by physical persons who, for exchange control purposes, are treated as nonresidents; and by physical persons who are Egyptian citizens and are either working abroad or performing services in Egypt for persons abroad. These accounts may be credited with any convertible currency transferred from abroad (including banknotes); transfers from other foreign currency accounts of the same type (as well as existing balances in the four types of foreign currency accounts that were discontinued on June 1, 1974); transfers from Free Nonresident Accounts; and any interest payable on the accounts. They may be debited for payments in Egypt permitted by any perti- nent rules and regulations; transfers to other foreign currency accounts of the same type; and transfers abroad in any convertible currency. (Residents may hold For- eign Currency Accounts-—Parallel Market/Exports and Foreign Currency Accounts—Parallel Market/Tourism.) 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any source, and all imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are also produced locally. Certain commodities, mostly when imported by the private sector, are financed at the parallel market rate. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- men ts ), as well as imports of specified goods f rom any source, are reserved for the public sector. A Supreme Council for the P lann ing of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are responsi- ble for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing, within the framework of quarterly foreign exchange programs. Foreign trade committees in the various ministries and authorities consider import and export offers for the goods w i th in their competence, in the light of specifications, prices, delivery dates, and means of payment. Approval by a foreign trade com- mittee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import transactions. Private sector imports through the parallel market require approval by the Commercial Agency for the Parallel Market. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agricultural, indus t r ia l, transportation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. In drawing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings from invisibles, as well as the expected availability of foreign loans and other credit facilities. Allowance is then made for the com- mitments falling due during the fiscal year in respect of foreign debt service and other obligations as well as pay- ments for invisibles. The remaining resources in con- vertible and bilateral currencies are allocated to the various sectors of the economy in accordance with the priorities given to the import requirements of each. By virtue of Order No. 478 of 1973, all goods may be imported without an import permit; imports are regu- lated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. By virtue of Orders Nos. 64 of 1974 and 1058 of 1975, all commodities except those appearing in a spe- cial list may be imported without purchase of foreign exchange, as follows: (1) Egyptian citizens receiving funds eligible for the parallel market may transfer these funds to Egypt in the form of the listed goods rather than foreign currency; and (2) alien physical persons and Egyptian citizens can supply the listed goods against payment to the credit of Goods Accounts, provided that 162 they are regarded as nonresidents. No approval is required for such imports by residents where the value is less than LE 5,000. For larger amounts, and in all cases where the importer is a nonresident, a special Determination Committee must first approve the terms of the transaction. Certain imported goods may also be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain highly essential foodstuffs imported by the M in is try of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Egyptian nationals who have deposited earnings from their work abroad, or from services performed for non- residents, in foreign currency accounts, may use this foreign exchange freely for any travel expenses for themselves, their wives and children, or their parents. Other residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the parallel market rate. V ir tua l ly all nongovernment payments for current invisibles due in convertible currency and not related to trade transactions must be settled in the parallel market. The following payments for invisibles take place at the official rate: government payments; specified types of payments relating to shipping; export expenses pay- able at the official rate; repatriation of amounts brought in at the official rate; dividends accruing to nonresident participants in joint ventures; reinsurance payments and indemnities due from insurance companies; pensions due to nonresidents; bank expenses and commissions due to foreign correspondents for transactions settled at the official rate; consular proceeds; and repayment of public and international commitments as well as the payment of amortization and interest due on transactions settled at the official rate. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Egyptian nationals working abroad and re turn ing to their place of work may take with them any rema in ing foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared; for- eign travelers leaving Egypt may take out only the bal- ance after deduction of the equivalent of LE 10 for each night spent in Egypt. Residents may not take out foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of «£ stg. 30 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. The proceeds in specified con- vertible currencies from exports other than raw cotton, cotton yarn and cotton textiles, rice, petroleum and petroleum products, potatoes, fresh onions and garlic, cement, and re-exported foreign goods may be retained for six months in domestic foreign currency accounts; the same applies to 50 per cent of any proceeds in con- vertible currency in excess of the annual export targets for cement, cotton yarn, and cotton textiles. Balances in these accounts may be used by the holder to make payments for certain imports or current invisibles (sub- ject to a commission equal to the d ifference between the parallel market buying and selling rates) or may be sold to banks at the parallel market rate. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Pro- ceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance w i th the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified coun- tries may be settled through indemn i ty accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles The parallel market rate is applied to the following receipts in convertible currencies: foreign currency sold by individuals arr iv ing f rom abroad; amoun ts transferred for the benefit of persons engaged in the tour ist indu s t ry for expenses related to tourist activities; all amounts transferred from abroad to physical persons, unless intended for investment purposes; all interest, profits, commissions, and other income accruing abroad to ind i- viduals, professional offices, and public sector companies; donations and subsidies received f rom abroad by various kinds of nongovernmental organizations and societies; amounts transferred by nonresident physical or juridical persons for credit to a Convertible Egyptian Pound Account; proceeds f rom temporary license and in terna- tional trade operations financed from abroad. Physical persons who are considered nonresidents (including emigrants of Egyptian na t iona l i ty, Egyptian nationals who have been resident abroad for at least five consecutive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in Egypt) are not obliged to transfer to Egypt any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in foreign currency accounts. Egyptian nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calen- dar years or who perform services for nonresidents are not obliged to repatriate or surrender their foreign cur- rency income and may retain it in fore ign currency accounts; foreign currency earnings derived from tourist expenditure may be retained in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts for six months, du r ing which t ime they may be used by the holder for authorized foreign expenditure. EGYPT With these exceptions, all persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all pro- ceeds in foreign currencies derived f rom invisibles. Cer- ta in travel in Egypt by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts, or, under indemnity agreements w i th specified countries, f rom Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian pound banknotes and are per- mitted to br ing in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. For- eign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of <£ stg. 50 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in foreign currency accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers by residents are severely restricted. Egyptian em igran ts are authorized to transfer funds and /or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly; in addition, they may export freely personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in Egypt against payment in foreign curren- cies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresi- dent account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or ma tured in accordance w i th the original terms of issue; (2) the value of l ife or endowment policies on surrender or at ma tur i ty; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued a l imony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresi- dent status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not rem i t tab le under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 Concerning the Invest- ment of Arab and Foreign Funds and Concerning Free Trade Zones defines the trea tment of new foreign invest- ments. Remittances of dividends covered by this law are eligible for the official exchange rate. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are consid- ered on an individual basis. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Gold The monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm. Other residents may only hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewelry in Egypt. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. With the exception of monetary gold, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry are restricted. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the bilateral payments agreement with Tunisia, settlements with that country were placed on a converti- ble currency basis. January 1. The quarterly allocations of convertible currency in the foreign exchange budget were replaced with semiannual allocations. April. The President reaffirmed the open-door policy initiated in 1974. May 7. It was announced that with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1976 Port Said City would become a free zone. May 28. Shipping agents and foreign shipowners were permitted to open Canal Dues Accounts for the payment of Suez Canal navigation fees. June 5. The Suez Canal was reopened; canal charges were expressed in SDRs. June 12. Twenty public sector companies were author- ized to borrow foreign exchange from domestic com- mercial banks if such borrowing would permit them to increase their export proceeds by an amount at least sufficient to repay the loan. August 1. Foreign travelers were required to convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of <£ stg. 50 (pre- viously <£ stg. 30) to obtain an entry visa. On leaving Egypt they were permitted to take out whatever foreign exchange they had brought in, a f ter deduction of the equivalent of LE 10 (previously £ stg. 5) for each night spent in Egypt. August 2. Ministerial Order No. 258/1975 of the same date came into force. Persons arriving in Egypt were permitted to bring in LE 20 in Egyptian currency; previously no Egyptian currency could be imported. August. The GATT was informed that the economic development tax on imports would be maintained until December 31, 1980. September 15. Foreign nationals residing in Egypt were permitted to buy and own investment bonds issued by the National Bank of Egypt; they could also sell them for Egyptian pounds during their stay in Egypt. September IS. Law No. I ll of 1975 was pro- claimed. It provided for the liquidation of the General Organizations. September 25. New banking legislation came into force. It shifted certain powers in respect of commercial 164 banks f rom the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation, removed the 7 per cent ceiling on interest rates, permitted commercial banks to operate in any field of banking, and facilitated the establishment and operation of joint venture banks with foreign participation. The powers of the Central Bank were expanded. Law No. 250 of 1960 was repealed. October 22. Ministerial Order No. 1058 of 1975 came into force. The list of goods which could be imported under the "own exchange" arrangements was replaced by a negative list specifying which commodities could not be imported on this basis. The new list included 18 basic commodities reserved exclusively for import by the Government, as well as a small number of other commodities, including footwear. As a result, the range of goods that could be imported w i th "own exchange" was increased sharply. October 25. Law No. 118 of 1975 on Imports and Exports came into force. The restriction that commer- cial exports and imports could be carried out only through public sector companies, subject to approval of prices and quantities by sectoral organizations, was modified substantially. Private sector companies and ind iv idua ls could henceforth engage in the export trade, provided that they were listed in the Exporters Register of the Ministry of Commerce. However, exports to pay- ments agreement countries of any commodity, as well as any exports of certain basic goods, could be restricted to the public sector at the direction of the Minister of Commerce. The Minister could also establish selective export controls, specifying the terms on which certain goods could be exported. (Initially, all exports of cotton, cotton ya rn, rice, cement, and petroleum and petroleum products were reserved for the public sector, as were exports to payments agreement countries of onions, garlic, groundnuts, potatoes, and citrus f ru i ts .) Private sector companies and individuals were also permitted to engage in importation, subject to similar exceptions and within the limits of the foreign exchange budget. The ceiling of LE 100 on imports for personal use, and not for resale, was removed. Law No. 9 of 1959, Law No. 203 of 1959, and Law No. 95 of 1963 were repealed. December 22. Foreign nationals and nonresidents were permitted to acquire real estate in Egypt through inheritance, or, by purchase, when intended for diplo- matic missions, personal residence, professional use, or any other purpose deemed either to serve the national interest or to facilitate the work of international organizations. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Hungary, Iraq, and Poland expired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.294665 gram of fine gold per Sal- vadoran Colon. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is <f 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are <£ 2.49 buying, and $ 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or w i th in these l im i ts. A s tamp tax of Mo of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below (f 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of Mo of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments, including most import payments, is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports must be obtained f rom the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance or of Agriculture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Com- pensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled through the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with banks authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that such accounts are credited w i th foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks also may freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of physical persons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad, and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. In addition, there are certain facilities for resident accounts in for- eign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance and are required for only a few items; these are mainly airplanes, firearms, ammun i t ion, mili- tary equ ipmen t, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports f rom all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports f rom countries outside Central America must be approved by the Exchange Control Department. For approval purposes, three classes of imports may be distinguished, as indicated below. (1) Imports for which no exchange license is required provided that the terms of payment do not exceed a certain max imum period (counted from the date of entry of the merchandise in to a customs warehouse), as follows: (a) Imports of raw materials for industry, iron and steel products for the construction industry, hand tools, various spare parts, and greases and lubri- cants, when the terms of payment do not exceed three years.1 (b) Imports of basic food products and medical and surgical supplies, when the terms of payment do not exceed one year.2 Imports of the following goods are not subject to max imum credit terms: machinery and equipment for agriculture and industry, semiprocessed goods for industrial production, surgical equipment, research and educational equipment, scientific, technical, or cultural books, and fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides, and herbicides. (2) For certain goods that are considered nonessen- tial, the Exchange Control Department cannot author- ize importation unless an advance deposit requirement is met. A prior import deposit in local currency, equiva- lent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, must be paid for these goods at the time of import registration. They 1 Four years when the goods or ig ina te in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in the previous calendar year, f rom which it receives loans with a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an in tegra t ion trea ty is in force or with which El Salva- dor ma in ta ins economic ties. 2 Eighteen months when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in the previous calendar year, f r om which it receives loans with a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or w i th which an in tegra t ion treaty is in force or w i th which El Salva- dor maintains economic ties. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR include specified nonessential food products, confec- tionery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes, cos- metics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, furn i ture, domes- tic appliances, and certain textiles. Small businesses are exempt from this requirement, subject to certain condi- tions, for imports up to US$30,000 a year of goods not produced in El Salvador. (3) The purchase of imports not covered under ( 1) or (2) above may only be authorized by the Exchange Control Department subject to the condition that the import is paid for before the goods are registered in the customs warehouse. Imports f rom countries outside the Central American Common Market that apply d iscr im ina tory restrictions against exports f rom El Salvador also must be paid for before customs clearance, w i th the exception of indus- trial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years (medicines f rom Mexico may be paid for w i th in 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers that the Central Reserve Bank considers as small enterprises). The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for all import payments, provided that the permissible credit terms are not exceeded, and, up to US$100 for each order, for noncommercial imports (such as medicines, various spare parts, and similar i tems). When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities covered by (1) or (3) above, a prior deposit of 10 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the impor ter as a guarantee, but indus tr ial and agricultural firms may be exempted. The deposit requirement is 100 per cent of the value of the advance payment for goods covered by (2) above; in this case the deposit serves as a guaran- tee. (Goods not covered by (2) and valued at US$500 or less are exempt from the 10 per cent deposit on the value of the advance paymen t .) Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports from other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are exempt from the exchange control regulations set fo r th above. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agree- ment of June 2, 1970 are also exempt. Imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are duty free by v ir tue of the Industrial Incentives Law. Many nonessential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax. The rates of tax are 5, 10, 20, 25, and 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange, without prior authorization f rom the Central 166 Reserve Bank, for medical and hospital costs abroad, subscriptions to foreign literature, correspondence courses, and memberships in professional clubs and societies. They are also authorized to sell foreign exchange for travel for tour ism, business, or health reasons, as indicated below. The basic exchange allocation which banks may make available for travel outside the Central American area (interpreted to mean the Central American Common Market) for tourism, business, or health reasons is, free from deposit requirements, the equivalent of US$600 a person a trip, on the basis of US$60 a person a day for ten days (US$300 for children under 16 on the basis of US$30 a d ay ). In special cases, the Exchange Con- trol Department may authorize amoun ts in excess of US$600 a person a t r ip, up to an additional US$1,200 (amounts in excess of US$300 up to an additional US$600 for children under 16 ), provided that a guaran- tee deposit in local currency corresponding to 20 per cent of the excess over the basic allocation is lodged with the Central Reserve Bank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's re turn. The Exchange Control Department may also authorize, in special cases, an add i t ional amount up to US$1,800 a person a trip (US$900 for children under 16) for trips exceeding 30 days, against payment of a 30 per cent guarantee deposit; this deposit also is released upon the traveler's return.3 The Exchange Control Department may authorize the sale of foreign exchange up to US$400 a month (up to US$200 a month for children under 16), for f am i ly remittances to Salvadoran na t iona ls abroad, and up to US$300 a month for study abroad. Local banks are authorized to sell exchange in addition to the above quotas for study purposes upon presentation of evidence of installation expenses, tuition, and other expenses. For Salvadoran nationals traveling to Central Ameri- can countries, the commercial banks have been dele- gated authority to provide exchange up to the same amoun ts in Costa Rican colones, Honduran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, or Gua tema lan quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones ( for payment through the Camara de Compensation Centroameri- cana ). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted for approval to the Central Reserve Bank. International sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance prem iums may be paid in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered w i th the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and peri- odically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they 3 Exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 (in excess of US$600) for specific clinic or hospital expenses abroad may be exempted from the guarantee deposit requ irement by the Exchange Control Department. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out £ 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Nonresident travelers may upon departure reconvert $ 200 into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the pro- ceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be author- ized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in <£ 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modi- fication, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and enterprises in the sphere of tourism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be author- ized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy and Finance); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (a f ter payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments represent- EL SALVADOR ing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) with respect to loans, interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is required, in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For- eign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance or the Exchange Control Department in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, with- out restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- rency for the payment of interest and amortization on short-term loans from abroad; foreign loans with a ma tur i ty of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a matur- ity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks through a system of individual quotas. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Gold Gold coins in denominations of <£ 25, <£ 50, (f 100, and <f 200 have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and other users. Changes during 1975 January 16. Additional raw materials of non-CACM origin were exempted from import duty, following simi- lar action in November 1974. January 28. Certain motorcycles were exempted from the 100 per cent advance import deposit requirement. March 1. The legalization by consular visa of import invoices ceased to be required, except for goods subject to import restriction. July 29. Some minor import items were exempted from the 100 per cent advance deposit requirement. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Ekuele, which is issued by the People's Bank of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. No par value has been established for the ekuele. The currency is at par with the Spanish peseta, which is Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency. Rates for other curren- cies are based on those in the Madrid exchange market. There are no forward exchange facilities. Exchange taxes of 17.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control The People's Bank is in charge of exchange control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the People's Bank or through authorized commercial banks; at present, the only authorized bank is the National Deposit and Development Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses also require the approval of the President. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain must be made through pay- ments agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program. They do not entitle importers to the necessary foreign exchange un t il they have been approved by the President, after which, in principle, exchange is automatically made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; in practice, certain delays have arisen. A state trading organization, INFOGE, has a monopoly over the importation of phar- maceuticals, flour, rice, sugar, salt, olive oil, jute bags, cement, and all government requirements. Certain imports from the People's Republic of China are made by state enterprises only. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the People's Bank, which for specified pur- poses and up to specified amounts has delegated its approval authority to the authorized commercial bank. At present, the approval of most payments and transfers for current international transactions by the private sector is suspended. Residents l are in principle granted 1 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. 168 foreign exchange up to the equivalent of EK 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad. The standard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of EK 2,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of EK 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition and living expenses; nonresiden- tial students are allowed the equivalent of EK 5,000 a month for living expenses. In principle, the transfer of wages and salaries by alien residents, and of professional earnings as well as dividends by all residents, is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to a country with which a payments agreement is in force, and up to 40 per cent for other countries, provided that annual earnings do not exceed EK 50,000. Larger transfers are permitted when annual earnings exceed EK 50,000. Transfers abroad of professional earnings by nonresidents are freely permitted, but any amounts in excess of 60 per cent of taxable earnings are subject to a transfer tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. There are special arrangements for the transfer of earnings of Nigerian workers employed in Equatorial Guinea. In addition, nonresidents as well as nationals residing temporarily abroad are permitted to withdraw up to EK 5,000 a month from their savings accounts for remittance abroad. The t rans fer of net investment income, whether by residents or nonresidents, is subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the amount transferred. Subject to this require- ment, transfers are fully permitted. In the event of at least 50 per cent of such net investment income being reinvested in approved projects in Equatorial Guinea, the tax is 17.5 per cent of the amount remitted. Trans- fers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royal- ties are permitted fully, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EK 3,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. All export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The Chamber of Agricul- ture, Commerce, and Industry has a monopoly over most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the People's Bank or the authorized com- mercial bank. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins but the import of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval, and the latter are not normally permitted. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immedi- ately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval by the Government. Residents, as well as nonresidents living in Equatorial Guinea, are prohibited from engag- ing in borrowing or lending with nonresidents. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the People's Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1970 in denominations of Equatorial Guinean pesetas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000; these are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1975 September 29. A new monetary unit, the ekuele, was issued to replace the Equatorial Guinean peseta in a relationship of one to one. No appreciation or deprecia- tion of the currency was involved. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethi- opian Dollar, corresponding to Eth$2.50000 = SDR 1, and Ethiopia avails itself of wider margins. The inter- vention currency is the U.S. dollar. The National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) does not deal with the public; its dealings in U.S. dollars with the authorized banks take place at the official rate of Eth$2.07 = US$1. Authorized banks in dealing with the public must observe this official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed com- mission charges of 0.75 per cent buying and 2.25 per cent selling; the resulting effective buying and selling rates are Eth$2.05448 and Eth$2.11658 per US$1, and are applied also in the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. Spot exchange rates for other currencies are based on the National Bank's official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in European exchange markets; a charge equivalent to about 1 per cent, additional to the prescribed commis- sions, is payable for transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Authorized banks require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the National Bank; all exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds. The Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism has statutory authority to pro- hibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval, except those between foreign currency accounts. 170 Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With minor exceptions, imports of passenger automobiles with an engine capacity of over 1,300 cubic centimeters are prohibited. No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are generally granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may in principle remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable earned income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; exceptions may be made, particularly with regard to the time limit, for foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with certain other public and private institutions, and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a stated percentage of their earnings, pro- vided this aspect of the contract has been approved by the National Bank. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962; applications are considered on their merits. Sub- ject to proper provision having been made for local taxa- tion and for a reserve prescribed by the Commercial Code, foreign companies may in principle remit divi- dends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are in principle allowed for- eign exchange equivalent to Eth$125 a day for a maxi- mum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16 if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas also are prohibited. All commodities require export licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from the Exchange Controller and some require in addi- tion the approval of specified public bodies.1 When applying for a license, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank within six months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered. Persons may bring in a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Reconversion of Ethiopian dollars must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict undesirable outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumulation of external debt, and to keep the authori- ties informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control permits are not required, but registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for any later repatriation. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. Foreign capi- tal may participate with the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. Transfers by emigrants who are leaving on termination of their employment contracts with the Government or with private organizations are limited to 40 per cent of the applicant's total net income; transfers by emigrants who had operated their own business are restricted to Eth$40,000 in any one calen- dar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Normally, evidence must be presented that all possibilities for domestic borrowing have been exhausted. Authorized banks may freely place their 1 With effect from April 16, 1976 the issue of licenses to export live- stock was restricted to the Ethiopian Distribution Company and four other specialized firms. ETHIOPIA funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. They need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold Special commemorative gold coins which are legal tender, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966 and Legal Notice No. 422 of 1972, have been offered for sale in Ethiopia and abroad by the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia to residents and nonresidents and may be exported by travelers. The ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adornment of which gold or platinum forms a part also is permitted. Unless specifically author- ized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody, in a quantity in excess of 50 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Certain mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank at a price equiva- lent to US$42.22 a fine ounce of purely refined gold. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users; those for the import of gold for industrial purposes are issued to registered importers on satisfactory evidence that the gold is des- tined for direct use in industry. Changes during 1975 January. The prohibition on livestock exports was terminated; in March the ban on cotton exports was l if ted. January 1. All private banks and insurance companies were nationalized. February 3.. Seventy-two industrial and business enter- prises were nationalized, and majority government con- trol was assumed in 29 others. March 11. Proclamation No. 26 listed the areas in which joint ventures would be permitted; Proclamation No. 39 of June 25 supplemented it with respect to min- ing. Both Proclamations took effect on February 7. September 1. Hotels, travel agencies, and tourism- related businesses ceased to be authorized dealers. September 2. Emigration allowances for persons who had been runn ing their own businesses were reduced to Eth$40,000. December 5. National Bank Notice No. NBE/EC/1 tightened the supervision over the actual and timely repatriation of export proceeds. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Fiji Dollar has been established with the Fund. On February 25, 1974 a central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1 was established, and Fiji availed itself of wider margins. Since April 7, 1975, however, exchange rates have been determined daily on the basis of a weighted average of the currencies of Fiji's major trading partners. The Central Monetary Authority of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. For telegraphic transfers, the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were F$0.8572 and F$0.8690, respectively, per US$1. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on Au- gust 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Authority, acting as agent of the Govern- ment. The Monetary Authority delegates to authorized dealers (only banks are authorized dealers in Fiji) the authority to approve normal import payments. Except with the specific permission of the Monetary Authority, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, which are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Fiji has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Transactions with Sterling Area countries as well as non-Sterling Area countries are subject to exchange con- trol. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. The prescribed manner of pay- ment for exports to any destination outside Fiji is payment in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. All foreign currencies are regarded as specified currencies and hence must normally be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domi- cile or established residence is a country outside Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for a period of at least three years. 172 Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Authority. These accounts may be credited freely with interest pay- able on the account, payments from other External Accounts, the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit; in addition, External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, trans- fers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when originating in countries other than Rhodesia. However, import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific licenses, including passenger automobiles, seed potatoes, flour, tea, sharps, and gold, and licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Authorized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Autho- rized banks may authorize advance payments for imports only if the goods have already left the port of shipment; in all other cases advance payment requires the permis- sion of the Central Monetary Authority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a dele- gated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Authority. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Resi- dents of Fiji when traveling to other countries may freely obtain f rom a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Authority, a foreign currency travel allow- ance for private or business travel up to the equivalent of F$600 a person a journey; where larger amounts are sought, applications up to F$2,000 a person a trip are approved. For extended visits, a traveler may apply to the Monetary Authority while overseas, through his ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bank, for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person a trip. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him, on his person or in his luggage, F$50 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$200 in other cur- rencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank and /or the Monetary Authority. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are obliged to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Export- ers may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, meal of copra, certain lumber, scrap metals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to autho- rized dealers, irrespective of the currency concerned. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area cur- rencies to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital is unrestricted but must be registered with the Central Monetary Authority, unless the recipient is an authorized dealer. Foreign invest- ment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by resi- dents to finance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority and are normally permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. Banks require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before any loans are granted to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$ 1,000—for any period and any purpose—to indi- vidual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend for- eign currency to any resident of Fiji without the FIJI specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and nonbank residents require permission from the Cen- tral Monetary Authority before they may borrow for- eign currency from anyone other than an authorized bank in Fiji or from any source outside Fiji. The trans- fer of inheritances and dowries which are due to non- residents is permitted, as is the transfer of the sales proceeds of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are also allowed to make cash gifts equivalent to F$500 a donor a year to nonresidents; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a maximum of F$ 1,000 a person a year to acquire foreign currency securities with the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority. The purchase of per- sonal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Port- folio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority if payment is made from a nonresident source; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment qualify for repatriation. Banks require exchange control permission to bor- row abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresi- dents. The net foreign liabilities of banks (that is, the positive difference between balances due to banks abroad and balances due from banks abroad) are subject to a cash reserve requirement of 5 per cent. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins but not gold bullion in Fiji. The export of gold coins, except numis- matic coins and collector's pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports from all sources require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of ll/2 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufac turers require import licenses regard- less of their value. Authorized jewelry manufacturers are entitled to rebate to the extent of duty paid on gold imports if they prove that imported gold has been manufactured into jewelry in Fiji. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Gold exports are subject to a 2 per cent export duty. A commemorative gold coin of F$100 has been issued. It is legal tender but does not normally circulate. Changes during 1975 January 9. Round steel bars and welded mesh were added to the list of prohibited imports. April 7. The Fiji dollar ceased to be pegged to the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate henceforth was deter- 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI mined daily on the basis of a weighted average of the currencies of Fiji's major trading partners. On April 7 the initial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar under the new arrangements were F$0.7796 and F$0.7827; previously, rates were based on the central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1. May 18. Licenses were required for imports and exports of logs, rough and dressed timber, plywood, and blockboard. May 30. The authority to license imports of gold and gold jewelry was transferred from the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Cooperatives to the Ministry of Finance. July 30. The cash reserve requirement against banks' net foreign liabilities was increased from 1.5 per cent to 5 per cent. November 14. The following measures relaxing the exchange control guidelines were announced in the budget proposals for 1976 and became effective imme- diately: (1) Up to F$ 1,000 a family a year was allowed for overseas portfolio and direct investments. (2) The limit for cash gifts to nonresidents was increased from F$300 to F$500 a donor a year. (3) The maximum allowance for remittances to overseas dependents was increased from F$ 1,000 to F$2,000 a year per remitter. (4) The ceiling of F$2,000 a person a year on overseas travel allowances was replaced by a maximum of F$2,000 a person a trip, while for extended visits appli- cations for further amounts could be submitted to the Central Monetary Agency from overseas, through the applicant's bank. (5) Emigrating residents were allowed to remit their entire net assets on departure. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Fin- nish Markka. A central rate of Fmk 3.90 = US$1 has been established, and Finland avails itself of wider margins. However, on June 4, 1973 the Bank of Fin- land ceased to observe the lower exchange rate margin, and the upper margin was suspended on January 8, 1974. The Bank of Finland's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31, 1975, were Fmk 3.841 and Fmk 3.859 per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the U.S. dollar and the clearing ruble at which autho- rized banks may cover their contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transaction permitted by the exchange control regulations; otherwise, forward premiums and discounts reflect international forward quotations. Authorized banks may deal among them- selves, with resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible or exter- nally convertible currencies. The Bank of Finland nor- mally concludes forward transactions for periods rang- ing from 3 to 12 months. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial bank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries1 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (rubles for the U.S.S.R. and Romania, Finnish markkaa for the People's Republic of China, and U.S. dollars in all other cases). Settle- ments with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Con- vertible Accounts. 1 At the end of 1975 Finland had bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. How- ever, settlements with Czechoslovakia and Poland were experimentally placed on a fully convertible basis for the year 1970 and these arrange- ments have since been continued. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish markkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, Finnish currency received direct from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, amounts of convertible currency received by the bank, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad freely to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments arrange- ments, are designated according to the holder's country of residence, and may be held in Finnish markkaa or the appropriate bilateral agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts with which the bank may credit a Convertible Account, amounts transferred from Restricted Accounts related to the same country, Finnish currency received from a bank in the country indicated on the account, amounts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the account, currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred freely to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. The assignment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. A monetary institu- tion may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, funds received as an inheritance or on the basis of a will, redemption pay- ments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, rent on prop- erty owned in Finland by the holder of the account, proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a contract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value and to be utilized in Finland, and interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for non- commercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder, and funds in Capital 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Accounts may be used for capital payments for account of the account holder when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Bank of Finland automatically grants per- mission for transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad dur ing the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the multi- lateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all coun- tries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements) ,2 provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Specified consumer durables, however, are temporarily subject to surveillance licensing, irrespective of origin. Certain other goods may be imported f rom the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 value quotas for specified commodity groups; no indus- trial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1975 was less than 1 per cent of total 1975 imports. Another group of goods also requires an individual license when imported from the multilateral area; these are set out in the discretionary licensing list, which comprises only agricultural com- modities, coal, coke, and petroleum products. Thus, the only commodities still subject to quantitative restriction for the multilateral area are agricultural commodities, fuels, and unwrought gold and silver; the consumer dur- able goods mentioned above are licensed freely. Import licenses are not required for most commodi- ties originating in and shipped f rom the U.S.S.R., or originating in and shipped f rom the four countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslova- kia, the German Democratic Republic, and Hungary). Quantitative restrictions on imports from the U.S.S.R. and these four countries have been reduced to the levels applicable to goods originating in the multilateral area. In addition, many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries are free of license. Imports under license from the bilateral coun- tries are admitted up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of commodities originating in countries classified neither in the multi- lateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Certain imports are subject, irrespective of origin, to a temporary import deposit requirement. In connection 2 The exceptions are Republic of China, North Korea, Mongolia, South Viet-Nam, and North Viet-Nam. 176 with customs clearance, a domestic currency deposit of 5, 10, 20, or 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be lodged with the Bank of Finland, free of interest, for a period of six months. Exemptions include most raw materials and most capital goods not produced in Fin- land. Special domestic or foreign credit arrangements for the financing of the deposits are not authorized. A temporary vehicle tax is levied on passenger automo- biles and motorcycles, whether imported or domesti- cally produced; the charge is equivalent to 20 per cent of the domestic vehicle tax. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original com- mercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months after the arrival of goods in the coun- try; if the period of credit exceeds six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland but as a rule is approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Under a temporary "cash payment scheme," however, payment for specified con- sumer goods and for passenger automobiles must be made, or the markka equivalent of the purchase price deposited with the Bank of Finland, before the goods are released by the customs authorities. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions (relating to transport and insur- ance), residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with nonresidents. Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect pay- ments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresi- dents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may grant for- eign exchange equivalent to Fmk 300 a calendar month for each remitter. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip. A Finnish traveler abroad may also withdraw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, pro- vided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and make the payment after return. Nonresident travel- ers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins declared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution these, up to Fmk 3,000. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through com- modity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate their foreign exchange pro- ceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or converted into domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invis- ibles do not have to be surrendered but must be repatri- ated within eight days of collection. The exchange may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unutilized foreign banknotes and travelers checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the surrender requirement up to Fmk 3,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who during the last calendar year have resided outside Finland and continue to do so may transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange is also permitted automatically, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securi- ties involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. FINLAND The regulations concerning inward direct investment are as follows: All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permis- sion liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is free. Foreign invest- ments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually granted liberally. Direct foreign investment in the forest and mining industries and in certain tradi- tionally regulated activities is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. Authorized banks, however, are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an automatic exchange allowance of Fmk 1,000 a calendar month for each donor for gifts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the fo rm of short-term or medium-term financial credits or by bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and timing. Lending to nonresidents is normally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is subject to a selective deposit requirement, the terms of which are set ad hoc by the Bank of Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1975 January 1. Import duties on most industrial goods of EEC origin were further reduced in accordance with the free trade agreement with the EEC. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND January 1. The supervision over the sale of foreign exchange for travel purposes was tightened. Thus, proof of the purchaser's identity was required. January 1. The import regulations for 1975 entered into force. The global quota program consisted of 11 quotas amounting to Fmk 190 million. The import licensing scheme henceforth distinguished between multi- lateral import treatment; treatment of imports from the U.S.S.R.; treatment of imports from socialist countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded; treatment of imports from the People's Republic of China, the Ger- man Democratic Republic, Poland, and Romania; and treatment of imports from other countries. January 1. The agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade signed in 1974 with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary came into force. A simi- lar agreement with the German Democratic Republic was signed on March 4 and came into force on July 1. March 12. Pending the introduction of a temporary import deposit scheme, a 15 per cent ad valorem spe- cial levy was imposed on all imports. It was abolished on March 24, when the import deposit scheme came into force. March 24. A temporary import deposit requirement was introduced, which provided that imports from any source of a number of commodities were to be released by the customs authorities only in connection with pay- ment into a special noninterest-bearing account with the Bank of Finland of deposits equivalent to 5, 10, 20, or 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports, depending upon the commodity. Most raw materials were exempt and most consumer goods were subject to the maximum rate of deposit. Deposits were to be repaid after six months. April 8. The Bank of Finland announced that it would not authorize the raising of foreign credits to finance import deposits, and informed banks that they should not regard the import deposit requirement as grounds for increasing credit to importers. May 1. The import deposit requirements for a num- ber of commodities were modified. On June 1 deposit requirements for additional commodities were modified. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 1. Certain large wholesalers began to exercise voluntary import restraint in respect of specified products. September 25. The Bank of Finland announced more restrictive approval criteria for borrowing abroad for investment purposes. October 15. The Bank of Finland issued new credit guidelines. Among other things, banks were asked to limit their financing of stocks of imported goods. The Bank stated that approvals for capital imports would be granted more restrictively; these would largely be con- fined to finance for investments that gave support to the balance of payments and improved the prospects for long-term growth. November 5. Surveillance licensing of imports of passenger automobiles was discontinued. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc, and France avails itself of wider margins. France m a in t a ins a max imum margin of 214 per cent for exchange rates in transactions in the spot exchange mar- ket between the French franc and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona.1 No announced margins are maintained for other foreign currencies.2 On Decem- ber 30, 1975, the "representative" rate for the U.S. dollar was F 4.4855 = US$1. Fixed conversion rates in terms of French francs apply to the currencies of the following countries and territories: the Operations Account countries,3 the French Overseas Territories (except the Territory of the Afars and the Issas), and the Condominium of the New Hebrides. These conversion rates have been maintained at pre-August 15, 1971 levels and are applied irrespec- tive of the nature of payments or receipts. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward exchange only in respect of imports and of certain merchanting transac- tions, but their forward sales of foreign currency are free, whether there is an underlying transaction or not. On the import side, forward cover is available for some commodities for 6 to 12 months, and for all others for 3 months. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Martinique, Guiana, and R eun ion ), and five of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control 1 With effect f rom March 15, 1976 France suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangemen t. 2 The currencies that are officially quoted are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and za'ires. 3 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Benin, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. is applied in relation to the Principality of Monaco or the Operations Account countries;3 payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the French side and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes;4 all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control pur- poses. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member coun- tries of the EEC. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Cambodia, Guinea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Maur i tan ia, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam, South Viet-Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides.5 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrow- ing abroad, unless these matters relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applica- tions and notifications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the 4 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the con- cept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from Janua ry 31, 1967. In the context of countries' overall relations with France, however, the concept sur- vives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); (2) the countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon) and Chad; (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tun is ia ); (4) two former Operations Account countries (Madagascar and M au r i t an i a ); and (5) one other country (Mali). This broad definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. In the context of France's monetary relations, the con- cept of French Franc Area is narrower, excluding the countries of groups (3) and ( 4 ). 5 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of Janua ry 30, 1967 of the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Cen- trale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance has certain powers in respect of mat- ters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been dele- gated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and partly to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, is responsible for any legal problems arising from the exchange regula- tions, and in particular handles any litigation relating thereto. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industrial and Scientific Development has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.6 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, however, normally take place in French f rancs only. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than French officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All over- drafts and advances on nonresident-held f ranc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited w i th ( 1) the f ranc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the French exchange market by a nonresident; ( 2) the franc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a nonresi- dent bank or traveler; (3) the f ranc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French banknotes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the ma in office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any autho- rized payment by a resident to a nonresident, including 6 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries, these are the Overseas Institute of Issue ( for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and St. Pierre and Miquelon) and the Institute of Issue of the Comoro Islands ( for the Comoro Islands). 180 interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization from French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonresident by donation or inheritance; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments 7 or real estate; and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediary of a notary public, of real estate belonging to nonresidents. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresident of foreign banknotes or withdrawals in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct invest- ment in France by nonresidents;7 (7) purchases of real estate from residents, through the intermediary of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance with the relevant regula- tions by residents; and (10) any payment by a nonresi- dent to a resident. If French francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in francs in the name of the beneficiary; balances up to F 50,000 that existed on August 9, 1973 have been released. The unremit- table funds of emigrants of French nationality must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) until they become nonresidents (i.e., until they have stayed in a foreign country for two years); emigrants of foreign nationality become nonresidents immediately and there- fore may take out all of their assets upon departure. Imports and Import Payments Goods or ig ina t ing in and shipped from other parts of the French Franc Area or from certain other coun- tries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quanti- tative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require indi- vidual licenses. Some imports f rom EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups accord- ing to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain fo rmer dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, 7 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of February 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified countries;8 (3) the Eastern European countries (Alba- nia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Roma- nia, and the U.S.S.R.) and the People's Republic of China; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Commodities that may be imported free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported f rom the next group of countries plus some other specified commodi- ties. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrange- ments applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit f rom the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group ( 1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little d iffer- ence between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from d i f fe rent countries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Hong Kong and Macao. Imports of certain industrial products f rom countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional indus tr ial products f rom group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries other than those hav ing the benefit of bilaterally negotiated quotas or of privileged treat- ment. Imports f rom all countries of certain agricul- tural items and certain raw materials are free of quan t i- tative restrictions. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required; however, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be pre- scribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the central Customs Adm in is tra t ion or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty require licenses when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require ind iv idual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and applicable to specified countries or 8 A fghan is tan, A rgen t ina, Aus tra l ia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Braz i l, Bu rm a, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egyp t, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, I ran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Repub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Pa raguay, Peru, Philip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South A f r ica, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. FRANCE areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the compensation transaction procedure, which applies mainly to goods of Eastern European origin. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, imports under this scheme are of slight importance. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange mar- ket. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. The amounts which may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but in practice the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 50,000, as it does not m a in t a in files for purposes of domiciliation. Authorized banks may without special authorization allow advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Administration. For all imports, importers may purchase spot foreign currency one month before the payment falls due (one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened). There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. The import payment itself can be made as soon as the importer can present evidence to his bank of domicilia- tion that the goods have been dispatched. Three months' forward cover for import payments can be obtained for any commodity; for the import of specified raw mate- rials and specified foodstuffs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) forward cover for six months or one year is available. The foreign currency may be purchased for- ward at the time of domiciliation, but the maturity of the forward exchange contract must not exceed the date on which the commercial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but not restricted as to amount. If justi- fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments without any l im i ta t ion for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for certain other categories of current invisibles. Applications for all other pay- ments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of estab- lished limits are referred to the Bank of France to pre- vent unauthorized capital transfers; such applications are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remit- tances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person without indicating their purpose, provided that the trans- 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE fers do not constitute installments of payments exceed- ing F 1,500, are not for purposes subject to special allo- cation, and do not serve to accumulate funds abroad. Payments which may be authorized without limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doc- tors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the t ran s fer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- ta in transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer- tain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equiva- lent of F 500 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unutilized fore ign cur- rency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered upon re turn to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs in France, as may hotel costs and other transpor- tation expenses. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be spent abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes and may reconvert in the French exchange market into foreign currency any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign notes and coins when acquired in the French exchange market against a tourist travel allocation, or, if they are leaving on a business trip, the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign banknotes or in checks. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign bank- notes unless they were declared upon entry and the 182 annotated declaration form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amoun ts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of f rancs in to foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may also freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require ind iv idual licenses; but if the total va lue does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted w i thout any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Regardless of their value, exports through compensation transactions with certain countries 9 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the official exchange marke t. The repatriation10 and, where appro- priate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries is required, no rma l ly w i th in one mon th of the date on which the payment fa l ls due. Authorized banks may freely extend fo re ign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the French exchange ma rke t, as may the proceeds from the dis- coun t ing of fore ign currency d ra f ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, therefore, the due date of the export receipts) canno t, except with special authorization or when a guarantee by the Compagnie Franchise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been ob ta ined, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign banknotes or bank- notes issued by an institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions related to fore ign countries and valued at F 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms f rom dom ic i l ia t ion requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports 9 A lban ia, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, Turkey, U.S.S.R., Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American countries. 10 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, w i th in one month from the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must within a month of entry sell in the French exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 that they bring in. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries generally are permitted freely, pro- vided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inves tmen t). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely per- mitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 300,000 a fam i ly unit.11 The transfer abroad of nonresident- owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French and for- eign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresi- dent must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt w i th or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in n On January 9, 1976 the Bank of France sent a letter to authorized banks dealing with the purchase of residences abroad that are to be rented temporarily during the year. Such purchases are subject to indi- vidual approval by the Bank; they are authorized provided that they do not represent a purely financial investment. FRANCE France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French author- ized bank or broker. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is pro- hibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks.12 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange market within two months of receipt, unless used within that period for reinvestment in securities abroad. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatriate the proceeds through the French exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control requirements. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the EEC, direct invest- ment transactions with which are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance; in relations with member countries of the EEC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participa- tion in any other type of firm is considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluat- ing the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, patents and 12 The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Except in respect of EEC countries, the Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Unless the amount involved is less than F 1 mil- lion, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the l iqu ida t ion pro- ceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister within 20 days a f ter it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized earlier in this paragraph, the making or the liquidation of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt f rom prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 1 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Also, cer- tain inward direct investment up to F 1 million a trans- action is exempt f rom prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt f rom authori- zation, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the French Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above, and whose postponement may be requested by the Minister up to two months after receipt of the declaration; (2) borrowing by indus tr ial firms for the execution of works abroad; ( 3) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (4) loans related to certain in terna t ional mer- chanting transactions; ( 5) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income f rom labor or capital), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions w i th foreign countries; (6) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized bank s ); and (7) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are sur- 184 rendered, and that each drawing against the loan is separated by at least one year f rom the corresponding repayment. (Du r ing 1974 and the first half of 1975 borrowing from nonresidents, whether in francs or for- eign currency, was not normally restricted, but during the second half of 1975 fore ign currency borrowing abroad was discouraged and borrowing in the form of bond issues on the Euro-franc market was preferred.) All borrowings in Euro-francs are subject to prior au thor iza t ion. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrow ing is delegated to the Bank of France inso- far as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, which is given or withheld w i th in the framework of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the g ran t ing of guarantees and vary ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresi- dents in francs, however, is prohibited, with minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to non- residents are free f rom limitation. Authorized banks may freely sell foreign exchange on the official exchange market for the account of nonresidents, spot or forward. They are allowed to pay interest on nonresident-owned f r anc or foreign currency deposits. Nonresident-held f r anc deposits are not subject to reserve requirements, whether on balances held or on increases therein. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, inc lud ing treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private draf ts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents have free and anonymous access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of gold into or from the territory of continental France require prior authori- zation by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for monetary gold but usually is given for industrial gold. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing only a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other jewe l ry) or num isma t ic gold coins, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under export licenses granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to cus- toms declaration. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, are subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangements and to licensing by the Bank of France. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is legal tender but does not circulate. It is actively traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of mone- tary gold (bars and coins) are not subject to value- added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quan t i ta t ive import regulations were made in accordance w i th EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles or beef and veal. January I. The issue of currency in the Comoro Islands was transferred from the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores to the Institute of Issue of the Comoro Islands (Decree No. 74-1177 of December 31, 1974). January 1. Medium-term and long-term export credit became exempt from the ceiling on the expansion of bank credit. The permissible growth rate for short-term export credits was increased from 22 per cent on a year-to-year basis to 2 per cent a month for the first half of 1975. On June 11 the Bank of France announced that the latter rate was being maintained for the second half of the year. January 1. A new procedure for the issue and use of import licenses for crude petroleum was introduced. January 9. The Minister of Economy and Finance stated that current policy on the approval of inward direct investment, as far as take-overs and participations were concerned, was as follows. Such investment from EEC countries was freely permitted. For investment from other countries, the authorities were opposed to take-overs of existing firms but took a positive attitude to minority participation of up to 10 or 15 per cent of the capital. January 9. It was announced that the export credit insurance facilities for construction activities abroad would be improved. In February, COFACE extended political risk cover to the insurance sector. January 28. The Government adopted an energy saving plan which envisaged that by 1985 the proportion of imported energy would be reduced to 55-60 per cent of total requirements and energy imports from any single country would be limited to 15 per cent of total requirements. March 2. Restrictions were imposed on imports of tuna. FRANCE March 8. France proposed the creation of a fund to finance guarantees and interest rate subsidies for interna- tional loans to overseas countries of the French Franc Area and to other French-speaking countries in Africa; half of the fund would be financed by France and half by the other Franc Area countries. Outline plans for an Afr ican Solidarity Fund were subsequently agreed at a meeting of Finance Ministers of the Franc Area, on August 28; it was also decided that the finances of the CCCE would be strengthened. March 17. It was announced that on April 1 an additional credit facility of F 3 billion would be pro- vided to finance new indus tr ial investment by firms expand ing their export capacity or conserving energy. Further details were given on April 23, when the credit facility was increased from F 4 billion to F 7 billion and interest rate subsidies were granted on long-term loans. (In March 1976 a further F 3 billion was made available.) March 22. Imports of wine from Italy were suspended de facto. The suspension was lifted on April 16. March 24. An issue of notes by a French public sec- tor enterprise took place in the Euro-franc bond market, on which no new issues had occurred since 1973. March 31. The French f ranc replaced the CFA f ranc issued by the Institute of Issue of the French Overseas Depar tmen ts as the currency of the Overseas Depart- ments (Article 14 of the Budget Amendment Law for 1974 and Decree No. 74-1130 of December 30, 1974). April 3. The Minister of Economy and Finance stated that public sector companies had been asked to reduce their borrowings abroad and that the Govern- ment would encourage Euro-franc bond issues by for- eign companies. April 4. Imports of additional commodities were liberalized when or ig ina t ing in and shipped from Eastern European countries, the People's Republic of China, Nor th Korea, or Outer Mongolia. April 23. It was announced that interest subsidies would be made available to small exporters. April 25. Until December 31, 1975 liberalized imports of certain cotton yarns from countries in Liberalization Zones I and II (except EEC member states) and of certain cotton or synthetic fabrics from Liberalization Zone I (except EEC member states) became subject to an administrative visa. On Decem- ber 28 these regulations were extended until Janu- ary 15, 1976. May 23. The restrictions of March 2 on imports of tuna were confined to tuna for industrial processing. The regulations were extended on Ju ly 9 and October 14 ( u n t il December 31, 1975). May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 18. A circular was issued liberalizing the regula- tions governing marches d'application, which since 1970 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE had allowed exporters to utilize the foreign currency proceeds of their commercial claims in certain circum- stances for payment abroad of their own commercial debts. The main change was that this procedure now was allowed also where a resident had at his disposal foreign currency borrowed abroad or from another resi- dent, and was no longer restricted to commercial trans- actions. The relevant circular of April 7, 1970, as modified by a circular of January 28, 1972, was revoked. June 18. A circular was issued mod ify ing the circular of January 19, 1974 regarding borrowing abroad. It specified the conditions under which foreign currency loans could be taken up abroad, without prior authori- zation, for the financing of commercial and industrial operations. The principal change was that approval ceased to be required for borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or cap i ta l) when under taken to finance operations exe- cuted abroad or transactions with foreign countries. June 25. The lists of import commodities eligible for 6-months' or 12-months' forward exchange cover were revised by the addition of certain goods. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement, at the cross parities in force on January 19, 1974, when participa- tion had been suspended. July 17. It was announced that a F 125 million issue by the ECSC had been sold on the Euro-franc bond market. July 24. A framework agreement on economic, finan- cial, and technical cooperation was signed w i th Saudi Arabia. July 29. It was announced that the amount of authorizations issued in 1974 for financial borrowing abroad was F 25.2 billion (F 12.8 billion for public sector companies and F 10.4 billion for private sector firms); effective drawings recorded in the balance of payments, however, amounted to only F 14.6 billion. August 1. The Bank of France, in its letter No. 207AF, announced that French firms executing operations abroad could open special foreign currency accounts (comptes de chantier) with banks in the coun- tries concerned. Permitted debits and credits were specified, as well as the relevant exemptions from the repatriation commitments. The Bank of France pro- vided further details in its Note No. 65 of November 24. August 9. Until December 31, 1975 liberalized imports of certain leather footwear from countries other than the member states of the EEC became subject to an administrative visa. On December 28, this regulation was extended until January 15, 1976. 186 August 9. Until December 31, 1975 liberalized imports of certain textile products from countries in Liberaliza- tion Zone I (except EEC member states) became subject to an administrative visa. On December 28 this regula- t ion was extended un t il Janua ry 15, 1976. September 11. Decree No. 75-846 introduced a tax of F 1.13 per degree/hectoliter on imports of certain wines f rom Italy. (The tax was abolished on April 1, 1976.) September 12. Parliament approved a package of measures announced on September 4 and designed to s t imu la te economic activity. As regards foreign trade, improvements would be introduced in the credit, credit insurance, exchange rate guarantee, and forward cover facilities for exporters; steps would also be taken to assist small firms in gaining access to foreign markets. September 19. The M in is t ry of Economy and Finance announced new measures to promote exports. Additional credit insurance facilities would be made available to French firms exporting to countries with temporary balance of payments difficulties. To encourage exports of certain capital goods, easier credit terms would be extended to foreign customers placing large orders. The Treasury would increase loans granted to developing countries to enable them to purchase more equipment f rom France. The premium of 0.64 per cent for exchange risk guarantees in respect of exports to coun- tries participating in the European narrow margins arrangement would be reduced to 0.36 per cent. For all other eligible currencies, losses borne by an exporter would be compensated in full if the variation in the exchange rate exceeded 2.25 per cent. Exchange risk guarantees for currencies previously ineligible could now be granted on a case-by-case basis. COFACE would be authorized to help firms arrange forward exchange cover for export contracts of less than one year. Export promotion assistance would be extended to firms whose trading abroad accounted for less than 5 per cent of their total business. September 24. The M in is t ry of Economy and Finance announced that the Government would exempt from w i thho ld ing tax investments by foreign monetary authori- ties, foreign states, and international institutions in French Treasury bonds, and under certain conditions, in bond issues of French enterprises, provided that the invest- ments did not involve direct investment operations. September 28. It was announced that French non- bank firms would not be permitted to borrow abroad for the remainder of 1975, although exceptions could be granted on a case-by-case basis. On October 7 it was clarified that the suspension related to foreign currency borrowing and did not apply to public issues of Euro- bonds denominated in French francs, although private placements abroad of franc bonds and notes also would not be authorized. (The suspension was terminated in February 1976.) November 1. A decree was gazetted which authorized the CCCE to issue a loan of F 150 million on the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution French capital market. The proceeds would be lent to Operations Account countries. ~ , , j A . , .A, December 11. An agreement was signed with - if • .u . . i u u ^ - ^CJ^% K°ning that"0lLntry '° launc^,bond issue of CFAF 5 billion on the French capital market. December 31. Law No. 75-1337 dealt with the con- stitutional position of the Comoro Islands. Upon promul- gation of the law (January 3, 1976) these islands, with the exception of Mayotte, would cease to be part of the French Republic. (See footnote 6. Decree No. 76-175 of February 19, 1976 provided that with effect from f ^ , ^ A^ ., , f „. ^ ^ ^ .^ Q£ cu Fe ^ M WQuld nQ longer be ^ responsibility of the Institute of Issue of the Comoro Islands and French currency would be substituted for the CFA franc as legal tender.) FRANCE 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de FAfrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for for- eign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Gabon itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle, financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Min- istry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- 1The CFA f ranc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. 188 tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Libre- ville by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Other- wise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Some imports are prohibited for security or health reasons. Imports of cement and wheat flour f rom all sources require special authorization. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France (origi- nal member countries only) may be made freely. All imports from other countries are subject to discretionary licensing. In practice, licenses are granted freely. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allo- cations may not be combined. Travelers going to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and certain mining products require licenses. Unworked gold and uranium are at present exported only to France. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled With an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. GABON Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad2 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires declaration to the Minis- try unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon3 must be declared to the Minister, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak- ing of a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 3 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. A minimum of 10 per cent state participation is required in all major industrial ventures. The Code provides for four cate- gories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and of government contracts. Non-Gabonese firms or individ- uals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 June 11. Gabon became a full member of the Organi- zation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.426562 gram of fine gold per Gambian Dalasi. Since June 1972, however, the authori- ties, while maintaining a fixed relationship between the dalasi and sterling, have not maintained the exchange rate for other currencies within prescribed margins. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals only in sterling and charges a commission of VIG of 1 per cent buying, and V2 of 1 per cent selling, based on the fixed rate of £ stg. 1 = D 4. The commercial banks deal with cus- tomers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the Bank's fixed rate and in other curren- cies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for imports from outside the Area that are covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling f rom non- resident sources. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author- ized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited f rom all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open General License if imported f rom the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) all countries within the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and (3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Para- guay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thai- land, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in dalasis or in any other currency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of importation for any com- modity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports f rom outside the Sterling Area that do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of impor- tation or shipment. Advance payments for imports, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the normal practice of the trade. Payments for imports from out- side the Sterling Area may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments in currencies of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require permission f rom the Central Bank, with the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Such permission by the Central Bank is liberally given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel outside the Sterling Area. For business, professional, or official purposes, author- 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA ized dealers may provide residents with exchange facili- ties up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day subject to a maximum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission f rom the Central Bank; all applications are approved, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken in currency notes and coins of countries outside the Sterling Area. Irrespective of destination, each traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian and /or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all goods to Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also require a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open General License. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six months f rom the date of export in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian cur- rency or in dalasis or sterling from an External Account. Proceeds from Invisibles ized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Out- ward transfers may be effected freely to countries within the Sterling Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Sterling Area. At the time of making invest- ments in The Gambia, nonresident investors may apply for a clearance f rom the Central Bank for subsequent repatriation of capital; the remittance of profits is freely allowed a f ter provisions have been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gambia. All other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia; once authorized, the loans are subject to the same regu- lations as those pertaining to resident borrowers. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United King- dom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be im- ported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Receipts from invisibles in currencies of countries out- side the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to author- Changes during 1975 No significant changes took place. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark. A central rate of DM 1 = SDR 0.310580 (DM 3.21979 = SDR 1) has been established, and Ger- many1 avails itself of wider margins of 21A per cent. Germany maintains a maximum margin of 2V* per cent for exchange rates in transactions in the market between the deutsche mark and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the French franc, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona.2 No announced margins are observed for other currencies. On December 31, 1975 the clos- ing selling rate for the U.S. dollar in Frankfurt was DM 2.6223 per US$1. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may freely enter into forward exchange transactions among themselves and with nonresidents, irrespective of whether there is an underlying transaction. Germany forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Min- istry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Fed- eral Office for Food and Forestry, Import and Storage Agencies (E infuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Minis- tries of Economics of the Laender. There is no exchange control as such, but Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussen- wirtschaftsgesetz) of 1961 has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transactions between residents and nonresidents.3 The Deutsche Bundesbank, the central bank, is in charge of the imple- mentation of the capital controls. The Bundesbank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to nonresidents of German money market paper and fixed-interest securities of German issuers with a remaining maturity of four years or less or eli- gible for delivery under en pension transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List, which is part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, comprises a total of 8,384 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: some 6,500 items may be imported free of license from any country except Rhodesia. Commodities corresponding to some 8,000 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Country Lists A and B only, and commodi- ties covered by 8,300 positions may be imported free of license only f rom countries in Country List A.4 Certain petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irre- spective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty are permitted w i th in the framework of a global quota of 5.5 million tons a year. Over 1,100 statistical items are covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC; most of these are subject to variable import levies which have in most cases replaced previous bar- riers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EEC regulations. De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (1,035 statistical items) when originating in and purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, pro- vided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA5 procedure). Imports of 1,500 commodities among those not sub- ject to licensing require an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as docu- mentation.6 For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) pub- lished in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for 1The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (Wes t ). 2 With effect from March 15, 1976 France suspended its participation in the European common margins arrangemen t. 3 The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in Article 4, Section 1, of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law. These definitions were fu r ther elaborated in April 1976 by the addition of Article 4a, which sets out in what circumstances branches and plants are consid- ered resident or nonresident. 4 Countries in List A are those of the former OEEC area and Finland; countries in List C are Albania, CMEA countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam; and countries in List B comprise those included neither in List A nor in List C. These three lists are contained in the Import List. Rhodesia is not included in any of the three country lists for imports. 5 Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung. 8 A different type of import declaration is required for some items that have been made subject to special surveillance by the EEC. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open (AMLA procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out individual license, except to Rhodesia. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of sea freight contracts with them; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traffic; transactions with speci- fied countries (which do not grant reciprocal trea tmen t) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the pro- duction of motion pictures in association with non- residents; and certain contracts with nonresidents per- taining to motion-picture films.7 Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, an export notification, for sta- tistical purposes, is required. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. A similar system exists for agricultural commodities, but generally for statistical reasons only. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of List C countries (see footnote 4) of con- structional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, insofar as such assistance is for the pro- duction of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. 7 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. 194 Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval, although a system of voluntary coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by non- residents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Only a few types of capital inflows remain restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is only required for sales to nonresidents of specified domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities8 of Ger- man issuers with four years or less remaining to maturity, as well as for en pension transactions with nonresidents involving fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in four years or less; the Bundesbank permits on application the sale of fixed-interest securities with a remaining maturity of over two years and up to four years, provided that they are part of an issue that was neither in its entirety nor in part put into circulation prior to August 15, 1975. Approval is not normally granted for the acquisition by nonresidents of fixed-interest securities maturing in two years or less. Nonresidents' direct investments in Ger- many, purchases of real estate in Germany for invest- ment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval.9 Interest pay- able to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax"). Banks are subject to minimum reserve requirements on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1975 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, i.e., 13.55 per cent, 9.35 per cent, and 6.25 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively.10 The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domes- tic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home or abroad. There is a Orderschuldverschreibungen, 8 Inhaberschuldverschreibungen, Schuldbuchforderungen. 9 In April 1976 an amendment to the Foreign Trade and Payments Law together with an amendment to the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance, introduced an annual reporting requirement with respect to the level and composition of inward and outward direct investment. 10 On May 4, 1976 the Bundesbank decided to increase the minimum reserves against liabilities to both residents and nonresidents by 5 per cent with effect from May 1 and by another 5 per cent with effect from June 1. and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution free gold market in Frankfur t. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia. With these exceptions, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are recog- nized by the M in is try of Finance as having legal tender status, including sovereigns and Krugerrand, are exempt from this tax and from customs duty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in practically all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 1. The 33rd Ordinance amend ing the For- eign Trade and Payments Ordinance came into effect. It adapted certain provisions of the Ordinance to new EEC legislation in the field of foreign trade. The licens- ing requirements for intra-EEC trade in scrap of iron and steel were replaced w i th a surveillance procedure. January 1. The 48th Ordinance amending the Import List came into effect. Country List C, which previously was part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance, was incorporated into the Import List, which already contained Country Lists A and B. The commodity list was adjusted in accordance w i th the EEC's harmonized foreign trade nomenclature. It also provided for some additional liberalization of imports. January 1. The 30th Ordinance amending the Export List came into effect. The commodity list was adjusted in accordance with the EEC's harmonized foreign trade nomenclature. The export restrictions on petroleum and petroleum products were abolished. The licensing requirement for exports of scrap of iron and steel was limited to exports to non-EEC countries. January 1. A number of goods (123 statistical items) were added to those that could be imported freely from state trading countries under the AMLA procedure. January 2. A revised specification was issued of exports to Rhodesia which did not require approval (on FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY December 20, 1974 the Federal Office for Trade and Industry had added a negative Country List D, contain- ing only Rhodesia, to the existing Export Lists A, B, and C). March 25. Bundesbank Announcement No. 8001/75 instructed credit institutions, with effect from April 30, to no t i fy regularly their end-of-month purchase and delivery commitments under forward exchange contracts as well as their claims and liabilities in gold and other precious metals. The previous reporting requirements for forward exchange liabilities and foreign currency positions were greatly simplified and now were limited to (1) the total amount of purchase and delivery commitments from forward exchange transactions (as well as uncompleted spot exchange transac t ions), and (2) the foreign currency position vis-a-vis residents. May 22. The Bundesbank decided to lower the mini- mum reserve requ iremen ts against banks' liabilities to residents by 5 per cent, with effect from June 1; the reserves against liabilities to nonresidents remained unchanged. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 20. Bundesbank Announcement No. 5014/75 revised with immediate effect certain exemptions from the m in imum reserve requirements against liabilities to nonresidents. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports f rom specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 1. De facto liberalization of imports under the AMLA procedure was extended to Cuba. July 3. The Bundesbank decided to reduce the mini- mum reserve requirements against both domestic and foreign liabilities by 10 per cent, with retroactive effect from July 1. July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement; accordingly, Ger- many again observed max imum margins of 21A per cent for the French franc. July 15. The 49th Ordinance (of July 12) amending the Import List was published. It provided for some additional liberalization, simplified certain procedures, and adapted certain existing provisions to new EEC or German legislation. July 17. The Bundesbank decided that with effect f rom August 1 the m in imum reserve requirements against the level of banks' foreign liabilities would be reduced to those applicable to the level of domestic liabilities. The new reserve ratios were 13.55 per cent, 9.35 per cent, and 6.25 per cent on sight, time, and sav- ings deposits, respectively (without differentiation as to class of bank or location). August 14. The Minister of Finance and the Bundes- bank agreed that the Federal Government would abolish 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY the authorization requirement for the payment of interest on credit balances on bank accounts held by nonresidents. August 26. The Federal Government decided to intro- duce a bill which was to create the legal basis for the registration of the amount of German direct investments abroad and of foreign direct investments in Germany. The law and the ordinance issued for its implementation came into force in April 1976 (see footnote 9). August 28. The 34th Ordinance amending the For- eign Trade and Payments Ordinance revoked, with effect from September 4, Article 53 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance, and thus abolished the approval requirement for the payment of interest on domestic and foreign currency balances held by nonresi- dents, with domestic credit institutions. September 1. The Bundesbank announced that hence- for th it would authorize the acquisition against payment of domestic fixed-interest securities by nonresidents, pro- vided that the ma tur i ty or remaining ma tur i ty was over two years and up to four years, and provided that the securities were part of an issue that was neither in its entirety nor in part put into circulation prior to August 15, 1975. September 1. Guidelines for technical cooperation against payment came into effect. They were applicable in relations with developing countries. November 4. At a meeting of the Foreign Trade Advisory Council, the Minister of Economics agreed to a review of the export credit insurance system with a view to improving the facilities available. (On Janu- ary 21, 1976, the interministerial committee on state guarantees for export credit risks lowered the proportion of insured risks that must be borne by the exporter him- self. With immediate effect, this share was reduced for exporters and banks providing suppliers' credit or tied buyers' loans from 20 per cent to 15 per cent for the commercial risk and from 15 per cent to 10 per cent for the political risk. A bank's share in the risk on tied buyers' loans could be lowered to 5 per cent, pro- vided that this reduced risk was not shared with the exporter or insured through other channels. Payments to suppliers in the case of tied buyers' loans granted to finance large projects were accelerated; such payments were synchronized with deliveries, while previously they did not take place until after the project went on stream, or four years after signing of the contract.) November 26. The Government decided to limit coal imports in 1976 to the level of actual imports in 1975 (4.7 million tons) and to build up a national coal reserve of 10 million tons. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.450182 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian Cedi. Since February 15, 1973, however, the Bank of Ghana has dealt at an official rate of (Z 1 = US$0.8696. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and 17 other curren- cies;1 on December 31, 1975 the Bank's selling rates were <Z 2.32 per <£ stg. 1 and <Z 1.15 per US$1. Differ- ent effective exchange rates arise for certain export pro- ceeds as a result of an export bonus scheme, and for certain import payments as a result of mandatory cash margin deposits against letters of credit. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghana ian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not ma in ta in foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that Ministry, to prohibit, regulate, or license the import and export of all goods. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Appli- cations that have been endorsed by the competent minis- try or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade and Tour- ism. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up and supervised by the Import Licenses Advisory Committee, on which the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the army, and the Chamber of Commerce are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settle- ments related to transactions covered by bilateral pay- ments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and /or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds f rom exports to countries with which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that country is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than Ghana are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts and from other Ster- ling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with autho- rized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non- Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for inward payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non- Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Ghana maintains such agreements with the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, Romania, Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreements w i th Cuba and Gu inea are at present inoperative. Certain settlements between Ghana and Benin are channeled through accounts which the Bank of Ghana and a commercial bank in Benin ma in ta in with each other. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, w i th paymen ts received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements w i th bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian cur- rency. They may be debited for authorized inward pay- ments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Offi- cial Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and Nam ib ia (South West A f r ica) are not permitted. Imports of some goods are prohibited; these include v ir tua l ly all textiles and textile products. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain commodities of a lux- ury character, and certain goods deemed ha rm ful to hea l th or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Restricted Imports. Applications for the importation of items on the restricted list are not no rma l ly approved. Certain basic items such as rice and sugar, which appear on the restricted list, may be imported only by the Logistics Committee (Essential Commodities Comm i t tee ). There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely f rom any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domes- tic pets, headloads of foods tu f fs f rom neighboring coun- tries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reim- ports. All other items require either a specific import license or a special unnumbered license.3 There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses. Otherwise specific import licenses are only issued for items that are considered essential. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing company, the Ghana Import Company, or another public sector agency, the Ghana National Trading Corporation. All imports of government depar tmen ts and corporations normally must be made through the Ghana Supply Commission. Import licensing takes place within the f ramewo rk of an annual import program. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be 3 Special unnumbered licenses may be issued where evidence is pro- duced that no t ran s fer of fo re ign exchange has been or will be involved. 198 made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports f rom any paymen ts agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted free ly by the Bank of Ghana, but certain arrears exist with respect to matured 180-day trade credits estab- lished before February 7, 1972. Importers are required to establish confirmed letters of credit through Ghanaian commercial banks when placing orders, and virtually all imports are made on a sight basis. Cash margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of letters of credit for virtually all categories of imports. The rates applicable are nil for crude oil and fertilizers; 25 per cent for indus tr ial raw materials, chemicals, spare parts, drugs and other medical supplies, and bu i ld ing materials; 50 per cent for machinery, equipment (including transport equ ipment other than au tomob i les ), and lubr ican ts; and 65 per cent for all other goods, inc lud ing private passen- ger automobiles. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank d r a ft unless the import docu- ments include a Clean Report of Findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited, which inspects price, quality, and quan t i ty in the country of origin or shipment. A graduated license fee is payable on the c.i.f. amount of specific import licenses issued for most commodities. The fee is levied at rates rang ing from 5 to 150 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. The following categories of payments are normally authorized in connection w i th the impor ta t ion of goods: (1) the transfer of no rmal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buy ing commis- sion combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (2) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. The payment of buy ing commission on imports is not permitted. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the t rans fer of funds to cover such charges is no rma l ly permitted, provided that the appli- cations are properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are norma l ly limited to 40 per cent of the ir net annual earnings, up to a max imum of (Z 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least 0 1,000; this personal remittance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requirements and commitments outside Ghana, includ- ing leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, arid donations. Expatriate employees in the m in ing and petroleum industries and in certain other industries are not affected by the limit of 0 3,000, and furthermore, are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of <Z 3,000. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, profit transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that are either foreign owned or owned or controlled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocations for tourist and busi- ness travel have been suspended. Travel allowances are determined by the Bank of Ghana in the light of the applicant's requirements. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to 0 100, provided that not more than the equivalent of <Z 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to @ 20. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, and Namibia (South West Afr ica) are prohibited. Exports to any destination of scrap of iron and steel also are prohib- ited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board, and dia- monds through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds f rom their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external African curren- cies or convertible currencies may be granted an export bonus of 20 per cent of the cedi equivalent. This bonus is given on all products of Ghanaian origin, other than timber, cocoa and cocoa products, and all minerals and primary metals except diamonds bought from local pro- ducers; in addition, the bonus is granted on timber and its derivatives and on fabricated metals, when exported to African countries. GHANA Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank.4 Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is prohib- ited with the exception that travelers may bring in up to (2 20 in such banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board in accordance with the Capital Investments Decree, 1973 of January 9, 1973. Certain lines of economic activity are not open to for- eigners. Investments approved under the Decree are guaranteed in principle the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also avail- able for such investments. The Decree also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expro- priated and that, when approved enterprises are national- ized in the public interest, fair compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. Government policy aims at the "Ghanaianization" of many economic activi- ties. This policy is implemented primarily on the basis of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975 and the Ghanaian Enterprises Development Decree, 1975, both of April 24, 1975. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds repre- senting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate docu- mentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securi- ties are controlled to ensure that capital is not trans- 4 On January 30, 1976 the Foreign Exchange (Cedi Voucher) Regula- tions, 1976 were published. They provided that no visa or entry permit could be granted to travelers unless they had purchased in foreign exchange a voucher of not less than US$50 in value (or such additional amount as the Bank of Ghana might determine). Travelers were required to purchase vouchers corresponding to US$50 plus US$20 for each day of their stay in Ghana. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA ferred abroad w i thout express permission. In respect of por tfo l io investments, res iden ts have to ob ta in approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonres iden ts. New borrow ing abroad is screened by the Pe rmanent Review Comm i t tee on Public Agreements, which for private sector bo r row ing relies on the recom- menda t ions of the Bank of Ghana. Private import credits in excess of (£ 100,000 for mach inery and equip- ment require approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lend ing to nonres iden ts is prohibited, except for export credits; these requ i re exchange con trol approval and no rma l ly are limited to 60 days. Borrowing abroad by commer- cial banks requires the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold ob ta ined domestically by wash ing or m i n i ng according to ind igenous methods, gold coins that are collector's pieces, and gold jewe l ry. Other domes t ic t ran sac t ions in gold, as well as impo r ts and exports, may be autho- rized by the M in is t ry of Trade and Tourism in collabo- ra t ion w i th the Bank of Ghana, and ce r ta in domestic sales may be carr ied out by perm it under the Gold M in- ing Products Protection Ord inance. W i th these excep- tions, no Ghana ian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold f r om, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than impo r ts by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies are not no rma l ly licensed; impor ts for indus tr ial use are very small, a specified commerc ial bank be ing the sole impor ter. The impo rt duty on bu l l ion and par t ly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold m ines export the ir en t ire ou tput in sem i re f ined fo rm. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a ra te of (2 3 per troy ounce. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the b i la teral paymen ts agreement w i th Poland, settlements w i th that coun try were placed on a convert- ible currency basis. January 1. A new import program was introduced. It provided for a subs tan t ial reduc t ion in impor ts f rom the 1974 level. No increases in the program could be made without the express approval of a committee appointed by the Na t ional Redemp t ion Council. All import licenses required the s igna tu re of the Director of Imports. January 1. The cash ma rg in deposit requ iremen ts for impor ts of crude oil, fe r t i l ize rs, indu s t r ial raw ma ter ia ls, chemicals, spare pa r ts, Pha rmaceu t ica ls and other medi- cal supplies, bu i ld ing ma te r ia ls, as well as mach inery and equ ipment were reduced by 25 percentage points across-the-board. All other imports, inc lud ing private automobiles, rema ined in the 100 per cent category. 200 January 10. Notice to Importers No. 421 announced that the va l id i ty of ou t s tand ing specific import licenses issued in 1974 (which had lapsed on December 31) would not be extended and that replacement licenses would on ly be issued in exceptional cases. In addition, all 1975 impo rt licenses (app l ica t ions for which had to be subm i t ted by September 30, 1974) were revoked. March 7. A Notice to Impor ters was published ban- n ing w i th immed ia te effect the impor ta t ion in commer- cial quan t i t ies of wax pr in ts, ladies' plastic handbags and shopping bags, and razor blades. April 24. The Investment Policy Decree, 1975 (Decree No. 329) was issued, to come into effect on December 31, 1975. It listed the enterprises wholly reserved for Ghana ian s, the enterprises partly reserved for Ghana ians, and the indus tr ies in which state partici- pation was manda tory. It also created an Investment Policy Imp lemen ta t ion Committee. Article 37 dealt with the r e t r an s f er of foreign capital and the t rans fer of prof i ts and d iv idends on such capital. Subsequently, the final date for the imp lemen ta t ion of the Decree was changed to June 30, 1976. April 24. The Gh an a i an Enterprises Development Decree, 1975 (Decree No. 330) was issued. It repealed the G h a n a i an Business (Promotion) Act, 1970 (Act 334) and was to come in to force at the same time as the Inves tment Policy Decree 1975 (Decree No. 329 ). The Decree set up a Ghana ian Enterprises Development Comm iss ion to deal w i th the development of fully Ghana ian -owned f i rms. April 24. The Investment Policy (Declaration of Pre- scribed Body) In s t rum en t, 1975 (Executive Ins trument No. 49) was issued. It declared the Na t ional Finance and Me rchant Bank to be "a body the holding of any cap i tal by which shall be considered as Ghana ian owner- sh ip, State or pr iva te for the purposes of the Investment Policy Decree 1975." The Ins t rument would be deemed to have come in to force at the same time as the latter Decree. June 2. The Bank of Gh ana announced that it would release fo re ign exchange to the commercial banks for the payment of impo rt bills which were due for payment between October 1 and October 31, 1971, and of approved services which were unpa id for want of foreign exchange, and in respect of which the cedi counterparts were paid to the commerc ial banks between October 1 and October 31, 1971. June 16. The cash ma rg in requ irement of 100 per cent was reduced to 65 per cent. June 18. The b i la teral payments agreement with Bul- gar ia expired. July 10. The Investment Policy Implementation Comm i t tee and the Ghana Enterprises Development Comm i t tee started operations. July 15. The Imports and Exports (Amendmen t) Decree, 1975 (Decree No. 341) amended the Imports and Exports Decree, 1974 (Decree No. 260). Among ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other things, the Decree provided for the reintroduction of special unnumbered licenses for imports. The issu- ance of such licenses, which could be granted where evidence could be produced that no transfer of foreign exchange had been or would be involved, had been discontinued with effect from January 1, 1974. July 15. The Imports and Exports (Fees) Regula- lations, 1975 (Legal Instrument 1025) changed the rates of levy on import licenses from a range of 5-50 per cent to one of 5-150 per cent. July 15. The Customs and Excise Tariff Regulations, 1973 (LI 838) were amended, effective immediately, and the 1974 amendments (LI 963) were revoked. The principal effects were to exempt from duty agricultural trailers and identifiable parts thereof, ambulances, and dumper vehicles; to impose a 30 per cent duty on buses and coaches; a 40 per cent duty on trucks, Landrovers, and similar vehicles; and a 50 per cent duty on passen- ger cars (including station wagons), domestic-type refrigerators, air conditioning machines, and various bakery and confectionery products. The importation of used passenger cars or station wagons more than three years old, and of all other used motor vehicles more than five years old was prohibited. July 15. The Budget Statement announced that to encourage Ghanaians to invest in equity shareholding, income from dividends would not be included in an individual's total income for tax purposes. A capital gains tax was reintroduced on profits made on the sale of assets. July 16. It was announced that bank lending to the import trade could not exceed the level of June 30. August 11. The Bank of Ghana introduced a scheme under which special import licenses for certain raw materials would be issued to manufacturers on their receipt of firm export orders. GHANA August 19. The importation of virtually all textiles and textile goods was prohibited. Certain textile products for industrial use which were not locally produced were not affected. August 26. The Commissioner for Industries announced that as from December 1977 no import licenses would be issued for raw cotton. September 12. Notice to Importers No. 422 estab- lished the import licensing procedures for 1976. Appli- cations for licenses had to be submitted by September 30. September 15. Regarding the implementation of the Investment Policy Decree, 1975, it was announced that any portion of an affected firm's capital which remained unsold to Ghanaians by June 30, 1976 would become vested in the Investment Policy Implementation Commit- tee, which would take appropriate measures for its trans- fer to Ghanaians. October 31. Notice to Importers No. 423 specified the circumstances under which textile goods could still enter Ghana. In principle, imports were limited to tex- tiles which were industrial raw materials imported by local industries registered with the Ministry of Industries. December 15. Ghana terminated its Commonwealth tariff preferences. December 20. The ban on trade with the Portuguese Monetary Area was lifted. December 21. The bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. expired. December 22. The Investment Policy (Amendment) Decree, 1975 (Decree No. 6) was gazetted. Among other things, it postponed the date of compliance with Decree No. 329 to June 30, 1976. December 31. All specific import licenses issued in 1975 expired. Where a letter of credit had already been established, however, a new 1976 license could be issued in replacement but would be deducted from the import- er's 1976 allocation. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma, and Greece has established a central rate of Dr 30 = US$1. On October 19, 1973, however, Greece announced that it would not for the time being ensure that the rates for the drachma would be kept within the marg ins hitherto observed, and since March 8, 1975 the drachma has been pegged to a weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1975 the Bank of Greece (the central bank) quoted official rates for the U.S. dollar of Dr 35.293 buy ing and Dr 36.007 selling, per US$1.1 The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Rates for other currencies are determined daily on the basis of the official l im i ts for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Greece offers for- ward exchange cover in U.S. dollars only. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministries of Finance and Commerce and the Currency Committee. Exchange control policy is made by the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the For- eign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for F inanc ial Requirements, and import policy is made by the M in is try of Com- merce. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce, and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent min- istry. The authorized banks may make exchange settle- ments relating to permitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. All other exchange payments require the approval of the Bank of Greece. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. 1 In addition to the U.S. dollar, the Bank of Greece maintains offi- cial quotations for Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. It also quotes banknote rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements w i th Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a dormant bilateral account for settlement with Chile of nitrate imports. 202 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be cred- ited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transac- tions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. At the end of 1975, the maximum rate of interest on such accounts was 1.5 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a minimum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; inter- est rates on the deposits range between 5.5 and 7 per cent per a n n um, according to their term. Particular regulations apply to nonresident investors (including Greek nationals permanently residing abroad) enjoy- ing the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below). They may establish time deposits, for a minimum period of six months and w i th a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, according to their term, and principal and interest are freely transferable at ma tur i ty in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Sub- ject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such pur- poses as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 100,000 for each month of the visitor's stay in Greece, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1973; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, f rom accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fers between blocked accounts require prior approval. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, pro- vided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through the intermediary of a shipping firm established in Greece. At the end of 1975, balances on these accounts earned interest at 3 per cent per annum for sight depos- its, up to 11 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 7.5-8 per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into foreign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Somewhat similar facilities for foreign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities or ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports (except those of goods on Lists F, P, and P-12 with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$660 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank) require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, ma in ly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval, provided that approval is obtained subsequently. The granting of an import approval implies that appropriate foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, ma in ly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries previously participating in the European Monetary Agreement when payment is to be made in a convertible or exter- nally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procure- ment authorizations under U.S. aid; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilat- eral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for certain imports effected for the account of the State, and for GREECE imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are only required for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, precious stones, jewelry, furs, perfumes, textiles, automobiles and parts, television receivers, and certain foodstuffs) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restric- tively, but for others they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum prod- ucts similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, and wheat and flour, su l fu r, and motion-picture films, as well as barter transac t ions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concerning pay- ments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in seven lists (F, F-50/1-2, and F-100/1-2, P, and P-12).3 Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against ship- ping documents, or by acceptance of time draf ts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P and P-12, there being no time limit for List P but a limit of one year for List P-12, which may be extended for a further six months w i th the permission of the Bank of Greece). The M in is t ry of Commerce may authorize longer pay- ment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in the P Lists. When time d ra f ts are accepted, a personal written undertaking amoun t ing to 4 per cent of the amount of the d ra ft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made w i th in the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in List F-100/1 a further cash deposit of 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under proce- dure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2.4 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value 3 Of these seven lists, Lists F, P, and P-12 are those containing all imports that are not subject to special payments or deposit regulations. 4 The total deposit required for used automobiles for private use, which are not included in any of these lists or in Lists F, P, or P-12, is 150 per cent. No deposits are required for goods in Lists F, P, or P-12. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit at the end of 1975 for each list of imports are set out below. Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 28 100 56 20 11.2 40 22.4 70 39.2 140 78.4 ListF-50/1 ListF-50/2 ListF-100/1 ListF-100/2 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced. When imports are financed w i th U.S. aid funds, a fu r ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank ( 1) at the t ime the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of ob ta in ing the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-10071-2, the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of two to four months from the date on which they were made. The bank receiving the deposit must redeposit it w i th the Bank of Greece. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign sup- pliers for all imports against delivery of shipping docu- ments or against a letter of under tak ing issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility com- panies. Except for goods in Lists P and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped w i th in six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place w i th in 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place w i th in 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in Lists P and P-12. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-6 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. 204 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents going abroad for fam i ly reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the equivalent of US$250 for one t r ip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. It does not grant additional foreign exchange for tourist travel, but it norma l ly provides foreign exchange for other travel as follows: up to US$2,000 a tr ip for exporters; up to US$1,700 a tr ip for industrialists and hotel managers; up to US$500 a t r ip for other businessmen; up to US$500 a trip for newspaper editors and travel agents; up to US$800 a tr ip for scientists attending interna- tional meetings; and up to US$400 a trip for newspaper reporters. For medical trea tment abroad it provides any amount for t ran s fer direct to a foreign hospital, or up to US$1,200 which the patient may take out. It also provides up to US$320 a month for studies in the Un i ted States and Canada and up to US$250 a month for studies in other foreign countries ( for postgraduate studies, up to US$375 and US$330, respectively). Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not inc lud ing those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken w i th them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes declared upon entry, provided that departure is within six months of arrival; the export of larger amounts or any export af ter a visit of more than six months is subject to general or spe- cific approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered w i th in 180 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transac- tions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of f r u i t, or wines; such transactions are permitted with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslova- kia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. In addition, any commodity may, subject to individual authorization by the Bank of Greece, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Repub- lic of China, and Iran. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents re tu rn ing to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Non- resident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents hold- ing Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is au toma t ic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved for- eign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.5 Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975, fu r ther privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which pro- mote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation men t ioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate produc- tively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respec- 5 This Decree also provides for the open ing of fore ign currency accounts by nonresidents and the re transfer of the deposits as well as the t rans fer of interest thereon. GREECE tively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. (4) For inves tmen ts made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the t r a n s f er of profits is related to the residual capital rema in ing in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earn- ings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. Also, fo re ign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enter- prises of special importance to the economy. Specified fore ign short-term investment may also be granted pref- erential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capi- tal and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (ma in ly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved with the exception that gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1975 January 1. The remaining import deposit measures of March 1974 were extended for six months, until June 30, 1975. January 1. The value of import shipments exempt f rom pro forma invoice visa was increased f rom US$200 to US$600 f.o.b. or US$660 c.i.f. February 1. The certification of pro forma import invoices for frozen or fresh meat was temporarily suspended. March 6. Certain import taxes, inc lud ing the stamp tax, were modified by a Ministry of Finance circular addressed to the customs on June 4. March 8. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to a composite of currencies. The fixed relation- ship of Dr 30 = US$1 was discontinued; the exchange rate of the d rachma henceforth was determined daily on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies with a view to m a in t a in ing a stable effective exchange rate in relation to the currencies of Greece's ma jor trading partners. The in i t ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar set by the Bank of Greece on March 8 were Dr 29.901 and Dr 30.101, respectively. (In July, the composition of the basket was modified .) April. The screening of pro forma import invoices was tightened. Administrative delays in the issuance of import approvals and import licenses resulted. These delays were eliminated later in the year. April 4. The 1971 prohibition on the import of used cars not older than three years was abolished; these could again be freely imported. Such imports, when for private use, became subject to an advance deposit requirement of 150 per cent applied on the basis of the value of the car when new. Imports of used cars for public use, such as taxis, became subject to an advance deposit of 44.8 per cent of the invoice value. The reten- tion periods for the deposits were eight mon ths and two months, respectively. April 29. Imports of meat became subject to a letter of guarantee of 25 per cent of the value. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 9. The provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687 of 1953 regarding the treatment of foreign capital were confirmed by Article 107 of the new Constitution. June 9. A new bilateral payments agreement with Brazil was signed. Settlements were to be placed on a convertible currency basis. June 12. Greece, already associated w i th the EEC, applied for fu ll membership. July 1. Most of the commodities still affected by the March 1974 intensification of advance import deposit requirements were returned to the import lists in which 206 tools were they had appeared prior to March 9, 1974; this reduced the level and duration of the required deposits. The remaining items, principally motor vehicles, were to be restored to their original lists by December 31, 1975; List F-200, which was to have been abolished by June 30, was ma in ta ined for the time being. July 1. Import duties on many products originating in the new EEC member countries (Denmark, Ireland, and the Un i ted K ingdom) were reduced! July 1. Decision 1192/4 of October 4, 1973, suspend- ing the guarantee deposit requirements for certain basic foods tuffs, was revoked. The goods concerned were again included in Import Lists F, F-50/2, F-100/1, or F-1007 2. July 16. The weight limit for imports of live calves was reduced. July 19. Imports of used trucks up to five years old were permitted; previously, those older than two years were prohibited. August 1. Imports of used machine brought under control. August 20. The Bank of Greece arranged a medium- term Euro-currency borrowing of US$200 million. August 29. The Bank of Greece borrowed 250 million deutsche mark abroad, on behalf of the Government. September 1. Exports valued at US$3,000 or less became exempt from submission of invoices for endorse- men t. However, world market prices had to be verified by the commercial banks. September 5. Joint Ministerial Decision No. 1891987 13589 increased the countervailing du ty on imports of fresh beef and veal. (A countervailing duty on frozen beef, veal, and lamb had been imposed earlier in the year.) September 9. Law No. 159 simplified the approval procedure for foreign investments under Law No. 4171 of 1961 and raised the minimum amounts of invest- men ts qua l i fy ing for the privileges of this law. September 13. Ministry of Indus try Circular 396267 3640 announced that the validity of Decree No. 791/70 (which had expired) would be extended; this decree had enabled industrial enterprises which had been in operation for more than five years to claim a reduction of 50 per cent in import duties for new machinery. Meanwhile, interim arrangemen ts would be made to continue the facility. September 19. Restrictions on imports of meat were relaxed. September 20. The export ban on 12 groups of prod- ucts was lifted; they included cement and certain iron and steel products. September 24. Banks were authorized by Currency Committee Decision No. 93 to grant medium-term and long-term loans with a foreign currency clause to indus- trial, hand icraf t, and tourist related enterprises for the acquisition of fixed assets. They could grant such loans only from funds borrowed abroad. Loans were subject ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE to a maximum interest rate of 7.5 per cent and were eligible for an interest subsidy from the Bank of Greece. September 24. The amount that nonresidents visiting Greece could withdraw from their blocked accounts was increased from Dr 30,000 a visit to Dr 100,000 for each month of their stay. November 1. The seventh reduction in import duties for goods subject to the 22-year transitional period under the Treaty of Association with the EEC took place. The import deposit requirements for imports from all sources of goods on Lists F-50/2 and F-1007 2 were reduced from 44.8 per cent to 39.2 per cent, and from 89.6 per cent to 78.4 per cent, respectively. November 1. The second stage in the alignment of the Greek customs tariff with the common external tariff of the EEC took place. November 15. It was announced that in 1976 the registration tax on private passenger automobiles would be fur ther increased. December 31. By virtue of Ministry of Trade Deci- sion No. 95577 of December 24, all remaining items affected by the intensification of import deposit require- ments in March 1974 (Decisions Nos. 15069 and 46284) were taken off the F-200 and F-100 Lists and restored to their original import lists. The goods affected included passenger automobiles, sardines, mineral water, micro- phones, television and radio receivers, motorcycles, and mopeds. Import List F-200 was abolished. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA ' (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System No par value or central rate has been established for the currency of Grenada. The un it of currency is the East Caribbean dollar 2 issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, which is officially maintained at the rate of EC$4.80 = <£ stg. 1. Commercial banks' aver- age rates for Canadian dollars and U.S. dollars are based on London market rates. There is no central bank. On December 31, 1975, the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.325 and EC$2.405 per US$1, respectively, and those for sterling were EC$4.77 and EC$4.80 per <£ stg. 1, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is admin- istered by the Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve normal import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control regulations do not provide that foreign exchange should norma l ly be surrendered to an authorized dealer, but residents are not permitted to hold foreign exchange in any form. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Grenada has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Settlements with residents of the Sterling Area countries other than member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM) ,3 may be made in sterling, in any other Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign currency 4 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of 1 Grenada became a member of the International Mone tary Fund on August 27, 1975. 2 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 3 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. * Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 208 Finance, Trade, and Industry. These accounts are main- tained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with bank inter- est (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license from all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran ts) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Imports are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$4,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and certain life insurance premiums. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Min- istry, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$ 1,500 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Grenada may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 and East Caribbean currency notes without limit. Nonresident travelers may freely export any foreign currency previously brought in, as well as any amount in East Caribbean currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of cer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regu- lations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign curren- cies are surrendered within a certain period from the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Grenada may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes are not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts and also for emigration purposes. The Minister of Finance, Trade, and Industry will also consider appli- cations from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent resi- dence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Grenada. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and to the registration of the original invest- ment with the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for pri- GRENADA vate purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes during 1975 April 4. A decision was gazetted which added to the list of goods requiring an individual import license vari- ous fru i ts, f ru it juices, foodstuffs, and feedstuffs. May 15. A Notice of the Ministry of Finance, Trade, and Industry was gazetted which provided that hence- forth all outward payments required prior approval by the Ministry. Subsequently, the approval authority for a few types of payments was delegated to authorized banks. December. A stamp duty of 5 per cent ad valorem was imposed on imports. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal, corresponding to Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies * on the basis of their rates mainly in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to forma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control but all inward and out- ward transfers are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Guatemala. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks appointed by the Monetary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua are normally made in the currencies of the countries concerned through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, lead, poultry, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and used trucks and trailers. Imports of coffee beans, coffee plants, soluble coffee, and tallow are prohibited. Imports from Hon- duras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Pay- ments for permitted imports may be made freely and in any currency. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for and pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and nonresi- dents may freely bring in or take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes and other means of pay- ment. The export of gold and silver coins, however, is prohibited (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a spe- cial export license), with the exception that travelers may take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in foreign countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a number of items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1975 January 24. Exports of certain foodstuffs and feed- stuffs became subject to licensing. April 25. A trade agreement with Panama came into force. June 25. Exports of cement became subject to licensing. August 11. Exports of raw sugar were prohibited. December 3. A law modifying the taxes on banana exports came into force. December 30. A law regulating oil exploitation came in to force. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Syli, defined as a monetary unit contain- ing 0.036 gram of fine gold. Since June 1975 exchange rates have been determined on the basis of the relation- ship GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. On December 31, 1975, the rate for the U.S. dollar was GS 19.17 buying and GS 23.10 selling, per US$1; all transactions under bilateral payments agreements were settled at GS 20.46 = US$1. The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea also quotes rates for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency of the Republic. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Bank's Exchange Con- trol Office. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of annual import and export programs, by Importex, a state enterprise. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.2 Settlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Five-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Sierra Leone leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Egypt, Ghana, Hungary, Lebanon, Morocco, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. There is also a compensation arrangement with a private firm established in Swit- zerland. The agreements with Cuba, Lebanon, and North Viet-Nam are inoperative, and the agreements negotiated with Albania, Cam- eroon, North Korea, and Liberia have never come into force. Settle- ments with the German Democratic Republic were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976. Importex within the framework of the annual import program. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports are effected outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made by two "mixed economy companies" (the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Five-Year Plan. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed economy companies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made, unless financed from retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist or business travel; each applica- tion is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 400 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equiva- lent of GS 6,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fares connected with the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authori- zation is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. For officially recognized s tudy abroad, the student's parents may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GS 2,250 a month. Stu- dents beginning their studies abroad are granted an addi- tional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be transferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Importex establishes an annual export program for all exports except those of the "mixed economy companies." All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (par- ticularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the fol- lowing commodities: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately after they are collected. Most exports other than those effected by the "mixed economy companies" are made by three state exporting enterprises: Prominex, Proseco, and Frutex. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be per- mitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. All other export proceeds must be surrendered; how- ever, the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating require- ments and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 507AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against the nationali- 212 zation of foreign investments in the industrial and min- ing sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 15 mil- lion is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic pur- poses. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1975 January 13. A tax payable in convertible currencies was introduced on exports of minerals and their deriva- tives (bauxite, alumina, and a lum inum ). The tax was retroactive to October 1, 1974 for bauxite and to Janu- ary 1, 1975 for alumina. January. The Government adopted a decision in principle to terminate all bilateral payments agreements, except those with the U.S.S.R. and the People's Repub- lic of China. February 16. It was decided to permit imports of gen- eral consumer goods up to some US$50 million outside the regular import program for 1975. The domestic sales price was to include, in addition to the import duty, a 30 per cent import surcharge. March 25. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated with effect from January 1, 1975. June 10. Decree No. 237/PRG established a state enterprise, named Importex, with monopoly rights over imports and exports. Henceforth, state enterprises had to submit their estimated annual import requirements and export programs to one of the following sectoral enterprises for approval: ( 1) COFICOM for commer- cial enterprises; ( 2) OCOFI for industrial enterprises; and (3) SECOFI for all others. These three sectoral enterprises then were to submit estimated annual import and export programs to Importex, which was to consoli- date them and implement the consolidated programs. Previously, the Ministry of Foreign Trade prepared the annual import programs, while exports were undertaken directly by three state enterprises: Proseco, Prominex, and Frutex. June 11. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR, on the basis of SDR 1 = GS 24.6853. The initial rate fixed for the U.S. dollar was GS 19.805; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution previously the rate had been GS 20.463 = US$1. Cer- tain broken cross rates, which had involved multiple currency practices, were subsequently eliminated. The rate for agreement dollars under bilateral payments agreements remained unchanged at GS 20.46 = US$1. October 2. The bilateral payments agreement with Romania was terminated with immediate effect, November 19. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic was terminated with effect from January 1, 1976. GUINEA 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar. A central rate of G$2.55 = US$1 has been established, and Guyana avails itself of wider mar- gins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Guyana normally deals only in Barbados dol- lars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1975, its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.5484 and G$2.5612 and those for sterling were G$5.15643 and G$5.18284. In its dealings in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of Mr> of 1 per cent on inward transfers and %e of 1 per cent on outward trans- fers; it charges a commission of Vs of 1 per cent, buying and selling, in dealings in Barbados dollars, East Carib- bean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. The commercial banks' charges for Canad ian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars are %6 of 1 per cent buying and s/s of 1 per cent selling. Their buying and selling rates for Barbados dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars are 1A of 1 per cent either side of parity. Guyana forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments up to specified amoun ts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing gen- erally is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Guyana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange control applies to all countries, and all curren- cies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of coun- tries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts f rom countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in 214 any listed specified currency1 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange con- trol approval, for persons resident in any country out- side Guy ana except Rhodesia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guy- ana to nonresidents and with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to resi- dents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., cer- tain capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. In practice, no funds have been directed into Blocked Accounts in recent years. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibi- tion is not applicable if they qua l ify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports from countries of the Caribbean Common Market —CARICOM). All permissible imports (except gifts, parcel post items, and trade samples up to a specified value), irrespective of or ig in, are subject to individual licensing. The grant- ing of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are sub- ject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities originating in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are generally granted freely, but such imports must be effected through the External Trade Bureau. The External Trade Bureau has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities from all sources (including certain dairy products); certain other goods (pr imar i ly paper products, such as books and newspr in t) can be imported only through the Guyana National Trading Corporation. Certain food- s tuffs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that fall under the agricultural marke t ing protocol of the CARIFTA/CARICOM Agreement. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval, which, except for tourist travel and deprecia- tion allowances, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. The stan- dard exchange allocation for tourist travel is C$200 a person a year and may be accumulated up to G$600 a person every three years. Foreign-based companies (other than those based in CARICOM countries) and their subsidiaries are prohibited f rom transferr ing deprecia- tion allowances. Standard allocations are applied to cer- tain payments of a personal na ture on an annu al basis, e.g., for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each child), for education at universities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each s tuden t ), and for fam i ly maintenance (G$4,800 for each f am i ly ). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$3 a person. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$15; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allow- ance. Nonresident travelers may within one month of their last entry freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohib- ited. Exports of rice may only be made by the Guyana Rice Marketing Board. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Depart- ment to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatri- ated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 1) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be re ta ined by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes may be brought in by returning travelers only and must not exceed G$15 a person. Capital Foreign investors must obtain from the Bank of Guy- ana "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. GUYANA Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of pay- ments or the economy of Guyana; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon l iqu ida t ion of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies (other than those based in the CARICOM area) and their subsidiaries are prohibited from export- ing depreciation allowances and from borrowing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 1) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other curren- cies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a fam i ly un i t; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, viz., G$24,000 a family unit at the time of emigration and G$ 17,300 in each follow- ing calendar year. Any unremittable capital proceeds must be retained in Guyana indefinitely, but the funds are not directed into Blocked Accounts. Borrowing f rom nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval.2 Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guy- ana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1975 February 1. Imports of tires and tubes, wire rod, structural steel, sewing machines, bicycles, and cosmetics could be effected only through the External Trade Bureau. February 2. Guyana abolished its Commonwealth tar iff preferences. February 22. Quotas were established for the impor- tation of textiles, textile articles, and footwear. 2 On J anu a ry 5, 1976 it was announced that publicly owned enter- prises would be encouraged to borrow abroad for the financing of specific projects. Foreign-owned companies also would be encouraged to borrow more f rom overseas financial institutions. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA May 23. The ban on trade with Portugal was lifted. July 1. All orders for the importation of books, paper, newsprint, and sports goods had to be placed through the Guyana National Trading Corporation. October 1. A basic exchange allowance for tourist travel was reintroduced, at G$200 a person a year, which could be accumulated up to C$600 a person every three years (starting from January 1, 1973). No basic allowance had been granted since January 24, 1974. October 1. The emigration allowance for nonnationals was increased from G$4,000 to G$24,000 for a fam i ly unit on departure and from G$3,000 to G$ 17,300 each year thereafter. The emigration allowance for Guyanese nationals remained suspended. October 9. The currency was repegged from sterling to the U.S. dollar. A central rate of G$2.55 = US$1 was established. Guyana continued to avail itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar replaced sterling as the intervention currency. Previously, a fixed parity rela- tionship of G$5.2114 = £ stg. 1 had been maintained. The last market rate for the U.S. dollar had been approx- imately G$2.55 per U.S. dollar. November 15. Imports of certain vegetables could be effected only through the External Trade Bureau. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The par value is 0.147332 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is G 5.00 = US$1, and this rate is applicable to all transactions. The intervention currency is the U.S. dol- lar. Besides the gourde, the U.S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to forma l ly accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law, and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. The banks review certain requests for foreign exchange to ascertain that no unauthorized capital transfers are involved. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain foods tuffs, certain footwear, paints, and passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000 c.i.f.; licenses are granted freely. Imports f rom member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and Japan require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. The domes- tic marke t ing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Importers opening letters of credit at the National Bank are required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain imports are subject, in addition to the applicable import duty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value; goods subject to the 4 or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers pay an "economic liberation tax" on the amount of the customs invoice; when it exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization f rom the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Essential Oils. Gold coins, gold and silver bullion, etc., may be exported only by the Na t ional Bank. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation which is not enforced prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets to a destination in the Caribbean area and G 50 on tickets to a destination outside that area; diplomats and staff of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Residents may hold capital assets abroad in any fo rm other than gold. For- eign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior gov- ernment approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operat- ing in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a m in imum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of a law of August 31, 1942, the National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export, gold in the form of coins, mineral, dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the M in is try of Finance as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1975 January 15. Import licensing requirements were intro- duced for certain foods tuffs, certain footwear, paints, and passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000 c.i.f. July 21. Import licensing requirements were intro- duced for textile remnants; they were terminated on December 1. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.368331 gram of fine gold per Hon- duran Lempira, corresponding to L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Hon- duras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the bank- ing system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Pay- ments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nica- ragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compen- sacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain imports require prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms, and certain other imports are subject to this requirement irrespective of the terms of payment. The import of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the National Development Bank. ment Corporation (COHDEFOR) . Those wishing to nego- tiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. However, by virtue of Decree No. 2 of January 28, 1969, the authorization of the Minister of Finance is required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to col- lect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required for the Government to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or other purposes; the contracting of external indebtedness by the private sec- tor requires approval by the Central Bank only. The foreign assets and liabilities of the banking system are subject to ceilings. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold do not require licenses but must be registered. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute and those of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the National Development Bank, and lumber exports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Develop- Changes during 1975 February 6. The Central Bank established minimum and maximum limits on net foreign assets held by banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. August 15. Decree-Law No. 253 created the Hondu- ran Banana Corporation. August 17. The Government eliminated all special regimes and concessions granted to foreign-owned banana companies. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar. The central rate is HK$5.0850 per US$1. Since November 25, 1974, however, the authori- ties have not maintained the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar within the previous official limits of HK$4.9706 and HK$5.1994 per US$1. On Decem- ber 31, 1975, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were HK$5.0150 and HK$5.0750, respectively. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Overseas Sterling Area, although it has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. No prescription of currency requirements are in force; settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable commodities and a few other items which are controlled for health and security reasons, imports are free of license. However, all goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia require an import license. Virtually all imports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Industry within 14 days of importation. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by the Department of Commerce and Industry. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for strategic goods, foodstuffs, electrical products, and some other items for 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. which control is imposed to enable Hong Kong to fulfill certain international obligations; textiles are also subject to licensing, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. All exports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Indus- try, which is also the export licensing authority. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any cur- rency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1975 January 23. The Exchange Fund (Amendment) Act, 1975 authorized the Exchange Fund to undertake for- ward exchange transactions. May 5. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of HK$ 1,000 was issued. May 23. The Government was authorized to borrow abroad. July 18. An agreement with the EEC was signed under which Hong Kong undertook to apply voluntary export restraint for certain textiles. December 3. Hong Kong's Commonwealth preferences were terminated. tariff 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00830471 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona. A central rate has been established of 0.00792269 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona. No exchange transactions take place at the par value or the central rate, since no announced margins have been observed since June 15, 1973. The official rates on December 31, 1975 were IKr 170.60 buying and IKr 171.00 selling, per US$1. Rates for other curren- cies are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for settlements through the clearing account with the U.S.S.R. are fixed; the buying and selling rates maintained for clearing kronur by the Central Bank of Iceland on December 31, 1975 were IKr 0.9886 and IKr 1.0014, respectively. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting the Cen- tral Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters concern- ing import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest com- mercial banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Iceland maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment with the U.S.S.R., and all settlements with that country must be made exclusively through a clearing account denominated in kronur.1 As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area and with Brazil are made in U.S. dollars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their respective currencies. 1 The agreement was terminated on January 1, 1976. 220 Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, ster- ling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license from any country; some 90 per cent of total imports is liberalized. Some 30 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quantitative restriction. Some of these commodities are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal items involved are petroleum products; the only other industrial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. All goods on the restricted list require individ- ual licenses. Certain imports are admitted only under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages. Furthermore, fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board in accordance with a government authorization. None of these commodities, however, is subject to quantitative restriction. For imports f rom all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of V2 of 1 per cent (minimum IKr 10) is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The com- mercial banks require certain advance deposits in con- nection with certain import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual license, for- eign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are mainly build- ing materials and nonessential goods (including motor vehicles for personal use). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by an authorized bank and the Ministry of Commerce. For- eign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to govern- ment authorization. Imports from all sources of motor vehicles and motor- cycles are subject to an import surcharge of 50 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 25 per cent, however, for buses and heavy trucks, and ambulances and certain other utility vehicles are exempt. Furthermore, certain nonessential goods, whether imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a temporary excise tax of 12 per cent ad valorem.2 Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to inter- national organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 37,500 (about US$220) a person for one trip a year (IKr 18,750 for ch i ld ren ): if a second trip is made in the same calendar year, an additional allocation of 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usually is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. 2 This tax was reduced to 10 per cent on Janua ry 1, 1976; a fu r ther reduction to 6 per cent was to take place on September 1, 1976, and the tax was to expire at the end of 1976. ICELAND Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The ship- ping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the author- ized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for pur- chases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding IKr 100. There are no limitations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation by nonresi- dents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are con- sidered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in con- nection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy, the import of construction materials, and so forth. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles for personal use, vari- ous household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. The authorities may in special circumstances allow import credit in excess of 90 days for such items as machinery, aircraft, 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND or ships. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are sub- ject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. However, citizens returning to Iceland after a period of residence abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1975 January 1. The temporary import deposit scheme introduced in May 1974 was abolished, under which most imports were subject to a deposit requirement that previously had been scaled down in several steps f rom 25 per cent to 5 per cent ad valorem. January 1. A further reduction of tar iffs took place under the free trade agreement with the EEC and the provisions covering Iceland's access to EFTA. Corre- sponding tariff reductions were made in respect of imports from third countries. January 1. The global quota list for 1975 went into effect. Imports of additional commodities were liberal- ized, irrespective of origin; these items, previously on the restricted list and subject to global quotas, were beer made from malt, portland cement, furn i ture, and transformers. January 29. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from IKr 118.30 and IKr 118.70, respectively, to IKr 118.60 and IKr 119.0. These rates were fu r ther adjusted on numerous occa- sions. Only the principal modification is listed below (see February 14). February 12. Foreign exchange dealings were sus- pended. February 14. Trading in foreign exchange was resumed, at official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of IKr 149.20 and IKr 149.60, respectively. Previously, the rates were IKr 119.30 and IKr 119.70, respectively. February 14. The basic exchange allocation for tour- ist travel was increased from IKr 30,000 to IKr 37,500 a person for one trip a year. March 7. The permissible maturity of suppliers' cred- its for the import of construction machinery, trucks, and tractors was reduced. April 7. The surcharge on motor vehicles and motor- cycles was increased f rom 35 per cent to 50 per cent, and that on buses and heavy trucks from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. July 17. A temporary excise tax of 12 per cent ad valorem was levied on certain nonessential goods, whether of domestic or foreign origin. The tax was to expire at the end of the year but was instead reduced to 10 per cent on January 1, 1976; it would be further reduced to 6 per cent on September 1, 1976, and abolished at the end of 1976. October 28. Color television sets were removed from the list of liberalized commodities. November 24. Suppliers' credit to finance imports of construction machinery, trucks, tractors, and similar equipment was no longer allowed. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee. Since September 25, 1975 the rupee has been pegged to a weighted basket of currencies, within margins of 2.25 per cent on either side. The rates of exchange for transactions in sterling have been pre- scribed by the Reserve Bank. At the end of Decem- ber 1975, the Reserve Bank's middle rate for sterling was Rs 18.1284, and its buying and selling rates for its operations in sterling with authorized dealers were Rs 18.0784 and Rs 18.1784, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase pounds ster- ling, U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and Asian monetary units, spot and forward, and to sell spot pounds sterling and Asian monetary units. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of foreign currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain listed currencies (the "permitted currencies")1 against rupees or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 30, 1975, market rates for tele- graphic transfers on New York were US$11.27 buying (clean) and US$11.05 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$11.1925 buying spot, and US$11.1725, US$11.1300, US$11.0775, and US$10.9900 buying forward ( for 1, 2, 3, and 6 months' delivery, respectively) per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to autho- rized dealers by purchases of sterling for up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 mon th s ), and of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars for 1, 2, 3, and 6 months' delivery. In addition, the Bank offers forward cover in these four currencies in respect of exports of specified capital and producer goods, for periods of 18 months to 10 years from the date of conclusion of the export contract. The Bank also pur- chases Asian monetary units from authorized dealers, for 3, 6, and 9 months' delivery (extendable up to 12 mon ths). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. There are also special payments arrangements w i th A fghan is tan, Egyp t, and Sudan for settle- ment of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis within specific ceilings, and the State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement with the Tunisian agency OCET for balanc- ing purchases of specified commodities. Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. With respect to direct investments in India, all collaboration proposals, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the For- eign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trading activities in India of companies with more than 40 per cent nonresident inter- est or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. The Reserve Bank's prior permis- sion is also required by nonresidents, noncitizens, non- banking companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest for acting or accepting appointment as agents or technical advisers of any person or com- pany in India in the trading or commercial transactions of such persons or companies. Import and export licenses are issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency India has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cur- rent U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: Bilateral Account countries (see footnote 2) and External Account countries (all other countries); the former group is also referred to as the Rupee Payment Area and the latter as the Gen- eral Currency Area. Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to 14 External Account countries3 may be made in rupees to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group or in the currency of any country or territory in this subgroup. Payments to all other External Account countries may be made in (1) the currency of the country concerned; ( 2) the currency of any country of the subgroup men- tioned; or (3) rupees to the account of a resident of any 3 The countries listed are Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, United Kingdom, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA country in the External Account group.4 Receipts from 14 External Account countries (see footnote 3) may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank in any External Account country, or in the currency of any territory in this subgroup. Receipts f rom all other Exter- nal Account countries may be obtained in (1) the cur- rency of the country concerned; ( 2) the currency of any territory in the subgroup mentioned; or (3) rupees f rom the account of a bank in any External Account country. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special rules may be applicable in respect of Afghanistan, Burma, Egypt, the Sudan, and exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. In addition, payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Nepal (i.e., Bangladesh, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their prod- ucts) may, but need not, be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians (w i th the exception of cer- tain accounts held by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are or have been nonresidents) and of Nepa- lese and Bhutanese nationals resident in Nepal and Bhu tan, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Nepalese, and Bhutanese firms, companies, or other organizations in Nepal and Bhu tan are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other for- eign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., Bilateral Accounts and External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms (including banks) or persons, with proceeds f rom sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds f rom sales of the currencies of External Account countries. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including b ank s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any coun try outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or t r ade purposes, were stopped with effect f rom November 3, 1962. All pay- men ts due to the People's Republic of China are requ ired to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is requ ired for all remittances to Pakistan and Rhodesia. Payments for transactions relating to t rade with Pakistan that is conducted on a government-to-government basis or through government-controlled trade corporations of the two countries are allowed under a special bank ing arrangement. 5 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their fore ign exchange requirements f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank. 224 accounts are of External Account countries. Transfers may be made f rom External Accounts to other External Accounts. All other entries on Bilateral and External Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of pay- ments to residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate for- eign currency or transfers f rom appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; refunds permitted by the income tax authorities; pen- sions due from the Central Government or any State Government; withdrawals or loans f rom, and maturity proceeds of, the Public Provident Fund, where the account holder is an Indian national or a person of Indian origin; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian na t iona l, ma tur i ty proceeds of all types of securities as well as sales proceeds of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a jo int account, any of the account holders) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may freely credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities had been originally purchased either out of funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sales proceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Sales proceeds of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares had been sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad, with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due f rom the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; investments in Indian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. For ord inary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin, as well as blocked accounts of such persons with balances in excess of Rs 50,000, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week dur ing their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annually may be debited for any purpose dur ing an account holder's stay in India; either type of account, when held by a person of Indian nationality or origin, may also be debited freely for investment in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts represent- ing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds f rom sales of certifi- cates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with balances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any payments in India. Nonresident (External) Accounts may freely be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian na t iona l i ty or origin resident outside India. They may be freely credited with new funds remitted through bank ing channels from the country of residence of the account holder. They may also be credited, after approval by the Reserve Bank, w i th funds from any other nonresident account of the holder, provided that such funds are eligible for remittance. The accounts may be freely debited for disbursements in India and for transfer abroad. Interest on monies s tand ing to the credit of such accounts is exempt from income tax and is freely transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in External Account countries. These accounts may be credited with savings remitted through normal bank ing channels, and with interest on the balances, which is free of income tax. The balances in these accounts are free of wealth tax. Balances may be held only as term deposits but are repatriable at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresi- INDIA dents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in Indian rupee securities quoted on stock exchanges in India (other than bearer secur i t ies) or, if the holder is of Indian nationality or origin, in the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968; with the approval of the Reserve Bank, they may also be invested in shares of Indian companies quoted on stock exchanges in India. The income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. For Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to January 1, 1963, net income f rom investments financed f rom blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in fu l l. For those granted such facilities between January 1963 and April 1968, remit- tances of income from assets left behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any kind is remittable to persons who obtained emigration facilities after April 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified items may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically all other imports require individual licenses. Imports of specified raw materials, spare parts, and components required by "select" indus- tries, by small-scale industries, and by units in other indus tr ies that had an export performance of 20 per cent or more of their production during the previous year, are licensed liberally. Licenses for raw materials and components are issued on a con t inu ing basis generally by way of importers claiming replenishment of goods actually consumed during a period of not more than 12 months. As for spare parts, licenses are issued annu a l ly on the basis of prescribed percentages of the c.i.f. value of the imported machinery and of indigenous machinery having imported components. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits from par t icu lar countries or against rupees in bilateral clearing accounts. However, a greater preference with respect to the permitted origin of imports is accorded to actual users with specified m in imum export performance. Indi- v idual licenses may be issued ( 1) ad hoc, (2) on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, (3) to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), Pakistan, Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China; imports from these coun- 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA tries (except Pakistan) are prohibited.6 Such licenses are referred to as General Currency Area Licenses, as distinct from Specific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other supplies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Licenses are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- stuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is restricted or prohibited. The import program for the period ending March 31, 1976 contains a list of 42 items, the import of which is not normally allowed,7 and a list of 68 items, the import of which is allowed on a restricted basis, i.e., only a part of the requirement is allowed to be imported because of partial domestic availability. Even nonpermissible items are allowed up to specified limits to actual users, against their licenses for raw materials, and under the import replenishment scheme. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to fulfill government contracts and for irrigation projects. Favored treatment in allocating foreign exchange for imports of capital goods and equipment is given to "select" industries. An import replenishment scheme enables registered exporters to obtain specified raw materials and other items needed for their export pro- duction; these commodities include certain items whose import otherwise is banned. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earn- ing or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted until Indian producers have been given an opportunity by public advertise- ment to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are disproportionately expensive or unacceptable for other reasons, or when no offers are received within 45 days. For certain types of steel cast- ings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. 8 The importation f rom Nepal of commodities originating in countries other than Nepal or India also is prohibited. 7 Imports of nonpermissible items are permitted to actual users and under the import replenishment scheme, up to the specified extent. 226 The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, corkwood, raw cotton, raw ju te, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and many cate- gories of steel is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, Sail Interna- tional Ltd., and the Minerals and Metals Trading Cor- poration. In addition, imports of natural rubber, sulfur products, vitamins, and antibiotics are normally arranged under the auspices of the STC. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre ( IRMAC ). In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign cur- rency to foreign nationals temporarily resident in India may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; Indian residents are prohibited from tak ing out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising f rom the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian com- panies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain conditions are met. Remittances of dividends by entirely foreign-controlled companies are limited when reserves are drawn on to finance the dividends. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident outside India (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared, except where such repatriation rights have been voluntarily surrendered. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968, of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India are sub- ject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration facilities. For emigrants who have been granted lump sum exchange facilities after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and Rhodesia, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,360 a month (Rs 1,500 a month for nationals of Bangladesh). Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or edu- cation abroad are considered on an individual basis and require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P form" formalities provided they have not visited any place outside India, other than Bangladesh, Mauritius, Nepal, or Sri Lanka, du r ing the period of three years immed ia te ly preceding the date of the journey; if traveling by Indian carrier on a round-trip ticket, they are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$100 or its equivalent. The scheme is applica- ble to all destinations except Bangladesh, Mauritius, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Under the Mauritius Travel Scheme, substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mauritius, except that any visits to Mau r i t ius w i th either a grant of foreign exchange by the Reserve Bank or passage booked with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, as well as visits to other countries under the Foreign Travel Scheme, are to be ignored for de term in ing the traveler's eligibility under the three-year rule. There are no restric- tions on travel to Bangladesh and Nepal, while passages may be booked freely for air travel f rom Madras, Tiruchirapalli, or Trivandrum to Colombo, Sri Lanka. The schemes mentioned do not preclude access to other travel facilities ( for purposes such as business travel or attendance at conferences or seminars, etc.) that may be approved under normal procedures. Foreign exchange for tourist travel, however, is not norma l ly granted except under the two schemes mentioned above. Travel agents and airlines and steamship companies are not permitted to book passage abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in Ind ia) unless the traveler is eligible under the Foreign Travel Scheme or the Mauritius Travel Scheme, has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank, or has been specifically granted permis- sion by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.8 Travel abroad to attend conferences is unrestricted provided INDIA expenses are covered by the host institution. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The following is applicable to all Indian currency other than the develop- ment-oriented design coins of Rs 50, Rs 10, and 10 paise issued in 1974. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. Deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singa- pore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Pakistan or Sri Lanka may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coins (within the limit of Rs 30 for Indian and foreign currency notes combined). Residents proceeding to Bangladesh for business or private purposes may take with them Indian and foreign currency notes and coins up to a combined total of Rs 20 a person a trip. Residents may take out foreign notes and coins up to <£ stg. 3.50 or its equiva- lent a person; exchange bureaus of authorized dealers and authorized money changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of <£ stg. 3.50 or its equivalent a person to all passengers, whether Indian or foreign, but not to deck passengers or travelers proceeding to Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, or to foreign nationals who are transit passengers or passengers holding open- dated tickets (including return tickets) issued outside India. Travelers to Pakistan may take Pakistan rupees in notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person; travelers to Sri Lanka and deck passengers to Burma Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, or East Africa may take <£ stg. 1.50 a person. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency which they declared on entry, less the amoun ts sold to authorized dealers and author- ized money changers in India. A foreign travel tax, at a un i fo rm rate of 12^ per cent on first class and economy class fares, is payable where the fare for an international journey is paid in Indian currency; tickets paid for in foreign exchange are exempt f rom the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through estab- lished shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to Namibia (South West Africa), 8 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, however, for the following: deck passengers to or f rom Bu rma, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Persian Gulf ports, or East A f r ica; UN staff members and their fam i l ies whose tickets are purchased by or on instruction f rom UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official duty, and families of such staff posted on du ty abroad on a long-term basis; foreign diplomatic personnel stationed in India; families of persons gainfully employed abroad proceeding to join the head of the fam i ly or persons ga in fu l ly employed abroad re turn ing to their country of employment after a visit to India, pro- v ided the fa res are paid abroad; employees of Indian insurance com- panies and banks posted on du ty with their branches abroad and their fam i l ies; persons employed by foreign governments provided the fares are paid abroad; travel between India and Pakistan by persons holding res t r ic ted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Paki- stan in India or India-Pakistan passports; air travel between Madras/ Tiruchirapalli/Trivandrum and Colombo, Sri Lanka; and travel between Ind ia and Nepal and between India and Bangladesh. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Rhodesia, South Africa, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some major exports, including certain ju te manufac- tures and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some exports, including engineering goods, mica, tobacco, handwoven woolen carpets, and lac are subject to mini- mum prices. Some exports, ma in ly new manufactures such as engineering goods, receive cash compensatory support in lieu of nonrefundable taxes and levies. Cer- tain cotton textile items also receive compensatory support. An import replenishment scheme provides preferential import licensing facilities for producers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. There are special facilities, however, which allow persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in External Account countries to ma in ta in certain foreign currency accounts and Nonresident (External) Accounts in India, balances in which are freely repatriable abroad without reference to the Reserve Bank. Schemes are in operation for the priority allotment of passenger automobiles, motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. All bills rendered by hotels to foreign tourists and to nonresident Indian nationals, other than bills rendered to nationals of Bilateral Account countries, Bhutan, and Nepal, and such other foreign nationals and nonresident Indians as are specifically exempted from compliance with this rule by the Indian Government, must be collected by the hotels in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars (or travelers checks expressed in those currencies), or in any other convertible currency. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presenta- tion of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Persons coming to India from 228 Burma, other than deck passengers, are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authori- ties upon arrival if the value of foreign notes and coins together with the value of the travelers checks brought in exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital Inward capital transfers are, in general, unrestricted, but their subsequent utilization in India in most cases is subject to approval. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest.9 The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities, provided Indian participation is not less than 26 per cent of the equity of the company and the com- pany is engaged in production in "core" industries, in predominantly export-oriented production (i.e., at least 60 per cent of output for exports), or in manufacturing activities which require sophisticated technology; tea plantations are included among companies benefiting from this provision. Companies engaged predominantly in trading activities or not meeting the other criteria listed will be required to reduce their foreign share- 9 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident in External Account countries may invest freely in any public or private limited company and in any partnership or proprietorship concern, irrespective of the nature of its activities, provided that the funds required are either remitted f rom abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn f rom the Nonresident (External) Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be asked for. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution holding to 40 per cent within a specified period or con- vert their character to meet the above criteria or wind up their activities in India. In exceptional cases, companies not meeting the criteria but which have developed skills, expertise, or facilities, or use technologies not indige- nously available, may be permitted greater than 40 per cent foreign participation, provided that the latter does not exceed 76 per cent. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines and shipping companies must in all cases convert themselves into Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent, and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding proportions are 33Vs per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trading and commercial activi- ties. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, resi- dents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. Nonciti- zens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, trans- fer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). Nonresidents besides the above categories of persons and companies must obtain Reserve Bank permission to allow the use of their trademarks by others for any consideration, and to obtain or continue employment in India as agent or technical or manage- ment adviser of Indian persons or companies. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable prop- erty outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval for transferring any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank com- pany not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 per cent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities to any place out- side India and transferring Indian securities to nonresi- dents. Residents are prohibited —except with Central Government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaran- INDIA teeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with Central Government permission, from associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatri- ated at any time; the public has been advised, however, to obtain the Reserve Bank's prior approval before effecting a sale when repatriation of the assets may exceed Rs 1 million. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in installments, usually of Rs 1 million a year, when the amounts sought to be repatriated are significant. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals (including persons permanently resi- dent in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In excep- tional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income are blocked and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are temporarily resi- dent in India (other than Bangladesh, Chinese, Pakistani, and Rhodesian nationals) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each family at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 30,000, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. Bangladesh nationals temporarily resident in India are permitted to transfer, besides their current assets in full, the sale proceeds of their capital assets up to a limit of Rs 50,000 for each fam i ly at the time of their retirement, and the remainder in annual installments of Rs 20,000. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Persons resident in India are per- mitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nationals not permanently resident in India, who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Indian nationals resident abroad and wishing to return to India to take up employment or to set up small indus- trial units are upon application exempted, for a period of three years, from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within 30 days of arrival. As an alternative to holding 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import, subject to import license, of equipment and capital goods, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, these persons have the option of surrendering their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within three years in the event of their deciding to go back to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons as on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or recon- version facilities. These various facilities are not avail- able in respect of earnings arising f rom employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the manufacture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished arti- cles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufac ture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits are subject to the requirement of declara- tion. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a sys- tem of licensing. Gold ref in ing is under state manage- ment. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of ref in ing and conversion in to standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are pre- scribed. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver and products of silver are subject to licenses, which are granted freely. With the exception of jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufac ture gold jewelry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for export and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the Bilateral Account countries and Pakistan is prohibited. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments arrangements with Bangladesh, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. 230 January 1. Exchange for private visits to Bangladesh was made available in pounds sterling, up to the equiva- lent of Rs 300 a person for one trip a year; the amount in Indian currency notes that could be taken out remained unchanged at Rs 20 a person at a time. January 1. The ban on trade with Portugal was lifted. The prohibition of payments to Portugal was terminated on May 6. January 1. Imports of steel items were channeled through Sail International Ltd. Previously, they were channeled through Hindustan Steel Ltd. January 7. A 5 per cent cash incentive was extended to exports of handloom fabrics (including made-up arti- cles and garments) and to exports of other cotton tex- tiles, excluding piece goods and yarn. January 9. The eligibility requirements for blanket exchange permits granted to exporters for travel abroad for export promotion and other approved purposes were tightened. The minimum annual export performance required was increased from Rs 2.5 million and Rs 500,000 for traditional and nontraditional exports, respectively, to Rs 7.5 million and Rs 1.5 million, respec- tively. On June 25, it was announced that a Rs 0.5 million annual m in imum, rather than that of Rs 1.5 million, was applicable to Indian consultancy organiza- tions of consultancy or design engineers. January 9. A new credit agreement with Mauritius was signed; the credit of 50 m i l l ion Indian rupees was intended to finance Ind ian exports. Implementing direc- tives to authorized dealers were issued on July 23. January 15. A protocol on the resumption of shipping services was signed with Pakistan. Carriage of cargo between the two countries was to be restricted to vessels sailing under the flag of either country. All payments and expenses relating to shipping services between the two countries were to be effected in freely convertible currencies. January 17. Procedures were announced to govern exports to Bangladesh under the Rs 100 million Emer- gency Relief Credit extended by India under a credit agreement which came into force on November 12, 1974. On April 9, procedures were announced for exports under the earlier Rs 100 million commodity credit and Rs 20 million commodity grant to Bangladesh. January 23. A one-year trade agreement was signed with Pakistan, permitting, initially, trade only on a government-to-government basis or through govern- ment-controlled trade corporations of the two countries. The goods to be exported f rom Pakistan and India under this agreement would be of Pakistani and Indian origin and for consumption in India and Pakistan, respectively. All trade-related payments were to be effected in con- vertible currencies through the State Bank of India and the National Bank of Pakistan. January 29. The export of coconut, dessicated coco- nu t, and copra was banned. January 30. The Reserve Bank granted general per- mission to the public for (1) sending out of India not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution more than two pieces each of the development-oriented design coins of Rs 50, Rs 10, and 10 paise for the pur- pose of making noncommercial gifts of such coins to nonresidents, and (2) for taking out two pieces each of Rs 50 and Rs 10 by passengers going abroad, for pur- poses of presentation. February 1. A scheme for priority allotment of agri- cultural tractors against inward remittances of foreign exchange came into effect. It would be available to Indian nationals who have returned from abroad and to relatives of Indians who are residing abroad and who have remitted foreign exchange in favor of the relatives in India for the purchase of a tractor. The scheme was similar in operation to that introduced in September 1974 for priority allotment of passenger automobiles and motor scooters. On February 15, a similar scheme for priority allotment of cement came into effect. February 10. Exports of groundnut oil and refined groundnut oil were banned until September. February 13. The export of all types of cotton yarn, which (except for singles and folded) had been pro- hibited since April 25, 1974, was permitted up to December 31, 1975. February 15. Exports of molasses, ethyl alcohol, and rectified spirit of any proof or degree were banned until November. February 20. Contracts for imports of goods and services from Poland had to be expressed in U.S. dollars, while the clearing account was to be credited in Indian rupees. February 28. The auxiliary customs duty was extended until June 30, 1976. March 13. Debits for investment in the Public Provi- dent Fund Scheme, 1968 by Indians and persons of Indian origin were added to the permitted debits to nonresident accounts, National Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts, and blocked accounts. April 1. The import policy for 1975/76 came into effect. It involved some liberalization of imports, espe- cially with regard to entitlements for industries produc- ing nontraditional exports, and a simplification of import licensing procedures; export obligations were increased: (1) Licensing of imports used as inputs in industrial production was made "automatic," i.e., license applica- tions could be made directly to the licensing authority without authorizations from other agencies and would be granted on the basis of the value of the previous year's consumption of such inputs or licenses obtained, which- ever was less. The system of "repeat licenses" was abol- ished. (2) The list of "priority" industries was replaced by a list of "select" industries, including 29 categories and comprising 79 items. Such industries could receive, on providing justification to sponsoring authorities (not the import-licensing authority), "supplementary" licenses for imports over and above those obtained through the "automatic licensing" procedure. They would also be permitted to import "nonpermissible" spare parts against their licenses for raw materials and components up to INDIA 5 per cent of their face value. (3) Small-scale units were also permitted supplementary licenses, which could be obtained as part of the automatic licensing procedure. (4) All units exporting at least 20 per cent of their out- put could receive licenses on the basis of the value of consumption of imports, regardless of the value of licenses obtained during the previous year. Small-scale units exporting 20 per cent or more of their production would be eligible for licenses under free foreign exchange up to 75 per cent of their entitlement and for the balance under U.K. credit. (5) The compulsory export obliga- tion was increased from 5 per cent to 10 per cent for certain industries. (6) All industries were now eligible for separate licenses for import of spare parts, which would be allowed on the basis of 5 per cent of the value of imported machinery imported prior to 1970 and 3 per cent in respect of machinery imported during or after 1970. In the case of indigenous machinery with imported components, all units would be eligible for spare parts licenses on the basis of 0.5 per cent of the purchase value of machinery (1 per cent for small-scale un i t s ). Nonpermissible spare parts would be allowed for import up to 10 per cent of the face value of licenses for spare parts, but the value of no single such spare part could exceed Rs 50,000. (7) The value limit of emergency spare parts was raised from Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 for large-scale units (from Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 for small-scale un i ts ). (8) The system of bank guarantees which exporters had to execute for discharging their export obligation against advance and imprest licenses was considerably relaxed. (9) Twelve items were no longer required to be imported through specified channels. April 1. Exports of bananas were allowed freely until March 1976. April 1. Exports of basmati rice were allowed freely un t il March 1976, but only through the STC. April 3. It was agreed with Nepal that India would apply specified ceilings on exports to Nepal during 1975/76 of iron and steel products, cement, and gal- vanized iron pipes. April 7. Exports of benzene methanol and toluene were channeled through the STC. April 7. Exports of 30 chemical items were banned, and exports of 18 other such items were restricted. April 8. Exports of forging quality steel products were banned. April 10. Exports of beef and beef tallow were banned. April 18. The export of ivory and ivory products was banned. April 23. The Reserve Bank announced that it was now implementing a provision of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, to the effect that transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or by for- eign nationals to other persons, whether resident in India or outside India, are invalid without the approval of the Reserve Bank. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA April 23. Prescribed forms were made available for applications to the Reserve Bank for approval under Section 19(5) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 for transfers of Indian shares by persons resident outside India, or by foreign nationals, or by corporate bodies situated abroad, to other persons, whether resi- dent in India or outside India. Authorized dealers were advised on April 28 that they could not credit the sale proceeds of Indian shares to nonresidents' accounts before the Reserve Bank's approval of the transfer of such shares had been obtained. April 28. Authorized dealers were advised that, sub- ject to specified conditions, they could effect remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders. For dividends declared af ter July 6, 1974, a certificate had to be produced indicating that the divi- dend declared was w i th in the ceilings prescribed under the Companies (Temporary Restrictions on Dividends) Act, 1974. On July 26, authorized dealers were advised that they could credit the amounts of dividends due to the nonresident shareholders to their nonresident accounts, to National Defence Remittance Scheme Spe- cial Accounts, or to blocked accounts. April 28. The ban imposed on March 1, 1974 on exports of rayon tire yarn, rayon tire cord, and rayon tire fabr ics was suspended un t il September 30, 1975. The suspension of the prohibition was later extended to March 31, 1976. April 29. Exports of khandsari sugar and gur were banned. May 3. The export duty of Rs 200 a ton on ju te car- pet backing was abolished. On June 5, the export duty of Rs 600 a ton on hessian was abolished. The export du ty on ju te sacking was ma in ta ined. May 21. An agreement w i th Nepal was signed under which Ind ia provided a revolving stand-by credit of 100 million Indian rupees for a period of six months, renewable for another six months. A previous one-year stand-by credit for Rs 50 million had expired in February 1975. June 5. An agreement on trade in textile products to cover the period January 1, 1975 to December 31 ,1977 was initialed w i th the EEC. June 10. The export of all fo rms of lac was chan- neled through the STC. June 16. The max imum grace period of 75 days per- mitted between the final date of shipment stated on an import license and the expiry of letters of credit for imports was extended to all import licenses issued against foreign credits, including credits f rom the International Development Association. June 30. The Reserve Bank granted a general permis- sion to exporters to make offers or participate in bids or tenders abroad on deferred payment terms, and to enter into contracts resulting f rom such offers, subject to certain conditions. Contracts could be entered into without prior approval where the value of exports did not exceed Rs 5 million, the credit period did not exceed 232 five years ( for specified types of goods), and financing was not required f rom the Industrial Development Bank of India. July 2. The middle rate for the pound sterling was changed f rom Rs 18.80 = £ stg. 1 to Rs 18.60 = «£ stg. 1; the middle rate had remained unchanged since July 1972. The Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for sterling were revised f rom Rs 18.75 and Rs 18.85, respectively, per £ stg. 1 to Rs 18.55 and Rs 18.65 per <£ stg. 1. The central rate remained unchanged at Rs 18.9677 = ,£ stg. 1, and India con- tinued to avail itself of wider margins. July 4. Authorized dealers were advised that contracts re la t ing to exports of goods and services to Poland could be expressed either in U.S. dollars or Indian rupees, at the option of the exporter, while the clearing account would be debited in Indian rupees in either case. July 17. Imports f rom the Sudan were temporarily suspended. July 26. Travelers to Bangladesh could take with them up to the equivalent of Rs 20 a person in foreign and Ind ian currency notes and coins combined; previ- ously, they could take out Rs 20 in Indian currency only. August 6. About 200 items were taken off the export l icens ing list. Some were completely decontrolled and others were put on the open general license for exports. Hum an hair, wigs, and wiglets were no longer required to be exported through specified channels and such exports were no longer controlled. The ban on exports of 12 chemicals was l i f ted. In add i t ion, procedures for certain controlled items were fu r ther simplified. The fee payable on export license applications was abolished. The fac i l i ty for providing exporters with indigenous raw materials at in terna t ional prices was extended to several more items on August 26. August 6. Silver products could henceforth be exported freely to External Account countries. The items covered were silver coin; silver bullion, sheets, and plates; silver chemicals and compounds with more than 50 per cent silver content; and other products with more than 50 per cent silver content. (Exports of silver coins and bullion had been licensed freely since Febru- ary 21, 1974.) August 23. Import duty on materials, components, and parts imported under the scheme of advance licenses issued to exporters was waived. This eliminated the wa i t ing period for receiving drawbacks. August 23. Fifteen export-oriented engineering indus- tries were given general permission to expand their capacity by 25 per cent over the next five years without going through the normal licensing procedures. August 25. The M in is t ry of Finance announced addi- t ional measures to attract remittances from Indians abroad. ( 1) The opening of nonresident accounts in selected convertible currencies would be allowed (see November 1, be low ). (2) Nonresident Indians would be allowed to invest in Indian indus try without under- tak ing that they would repatriate neither capital nor ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dividends (see October 10, below). (3) The entire dividend income from units of the Unit Trust of India purchased by nonresident Indians would be made tax free (see October 31, be low). (4) Indian professionals going abroad or already staying abroad would be per- suaded to enter into a contract with the Government of India agreeing to remit 10 per cent of their earnings to India through legal channels; this would be applicable to persons earning in excess of US$12,000 a year. August 26. Import entitlements granted to exporters ceased to be restricted to certain specific import items only and became freely transferable within a list of import items. August 26. Authorized dealers could freely allow credits of pensions due f rom the Central Government or a State Government to a person resident outside India, irrespective of the amount involved, to his Nonresident or Blocked Account (but not to his Nonresident (Exter- na l) Account or Na t ional Defence Remittance Scheme Special Account). September 1. The Reserve Bank was prepared to pur- chase deutsche mark and Japanese yen forward also for six months' delivery; previously, this facility was avail- able only for one, two, and three months' forward delivery. In addition, forward sales of sterling, U.S. dol- lars, deutsche mark, and Japanese yen by authorized dealers to the Reserve Bank against their spot purchases of these currencies became permissible. September 15. Indians resident abroad, who had opened a Nonresident (External) Account by remitting funds from abroad through banking channels and then returned to India, could, on the merits of the case, obtain permission from the Reserve Bank (1) to recon- vert the balance into foreign currency when leaving India within three years of their return; (2) to reconvert the resident account into a Nonresident (External) Account after departure from India within three years, provided no local rupee credits had been made into the account in the meantime; or (3) to open a new Nonresi- dent (External) Account, a f ter departure from India within three years (up to the value of the balance at the time of initial conversion of the account into a Resident Accoun t). The facilities were not available to Indians employed abroad with any Indian-owned organization. September 25. The currency was re pegged from the pound sterling to a weighted basket of currencies; mar- gins would be maintained within 2.25 per cent on either side. Previously, the central rate was Rs 18.9677 = <£ stg. 1. The intervention currency continued to be the pound sterling, and the Reserve Bank would fix the buying and selling rates for sterling, ad jus t ing these from time to time in conformity with the new policy. The midpoint between buying and selling rates for the pound was initially fixed at Rs 18.3084 = <£ stg. 1, with effect from September 25, as compared to the existing middle rate of Rs 18.60 = <£ stg. 1. September 29. Residents having received inward for- eign exchange remittances within three months imme- INDIA diately prior to February 15, 1975 became eligible for the benefits of the scheme for priority allocation of cement. Previously, the scheme applied only to remit- tances made after February 15. October 1. The travel tax was made uniform at a rate of (cid:2)l/2 per cent. Previously, it was levied at rates of 10 per cent and 15 per cent. October 4. Fares for air or ship passages for nonresi- dents' journeys to and from India could be settled in rupees, without the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, if payment was made against balances held in Nonresi- dent (External) Accounts. October 10. Nonresident Indian nationals and per- sons of Indian origin resident abroad were permitted to subscribe to the equity capital of new companies for setting up new projects in all industries (with some specified exceptions), subject to the condition that the total of such holdings by one or more nonresidents of the categories referred to would not exceed 20 per cent of the new capital to be issued by such companies. These investments, along with the income thereon, could be repatriated (subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes), provided that such investments were made by remittances from abroad through normal banking chan- nels or out of funds held in Nonresident (External) Accounts. Investment under the scheme would be in addition to any foreign equity investment that might be permitted by the Government in the company concerned. October 28. Authorized dealers were required to obtain the prior approval of the Reserve Bank before granting loans or overdrafts to nonresident persons of Indian nationality or of Indian origin against the secur- ity of fixed deposits created solely out of remittances f rom abroad (including balances held in Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresi- den t) Accoun ts); the authority to grant such credit up to Rs 20,000, subject to certain conditions, was revoked. October 31. An Ordinance was issued to amend the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963. The Ordinance exempted from income tax and wealth tax income arising from investments in units of the Unit Trust of India and the value of the investments, respectively, by nonresident persons of Indian nationality or origin when financed f rom Nonresident (External) Accounts or through remittance of foreign exchange through normal banking channels. November 1. A new type of nonresident account, Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts, was intro- duced. Nonresident persons of Indian nationality or origin could open accounts in designated foreign curren- cies (pounds sterling and U.S. dollars) for remittance of their savings from abroad. Interest was paid in the currencies in which the accounts were held and was free of Indian income tax. The balances, including interest, were repatriable at any time in the same currencies, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances could only be held as term deposits, for periods ranging from 91 days to 61 months. The exchange risk was borne 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA by the Reserve Bank. The opening of, and operations on, the accounts were governed by the Nonresident (External) Accounts Rules, 1970. The facilities of this Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts scheme were not available to persons resident in Bilateral Account countries. November 1. The Asian Clearing Union began oper- ations. At the option of the payor or payee, payments and receipts for current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) to and from Bangladesh, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka could be settled in Asian monetary units, one unit being equivalent to SDR 1. The arrangements were not appli- cable to settlements between India and one member of the Union, Nepal. November 1. The Reserve Bank stood ready to sell Asian monetary units spot to authorized dealers and to purchase them from authorized dealers for spot and forward delivery for periods up to 3, 6, and 9 months (extendable up to 12 months). The value of the unit for the first accounting period in November 1975 was set at a middle rate of 1 Asian monetary unit = Rs 10.4991. The charge on forward purchases of the unit by the Reserve Bank was Rs 0.02 per unit for three months. Authorized dealers were permitted to extend forward cover to exporters in Asian monetary units where export orders were expressed in these units or in the currency of the importing member country of the Clearing Union. November 12. Procedures for issuing blanket exchange permits to large exporters were simplified and liberal- ized. Also, all persons traveling abroad for export promotion purposes were eligible for additional exchange up to 20 per cent of the per diem rates to meet inci- dental expenses and surface travel charges abroad. In addition, blanket exchange permit holders were entitled to utilize exchange up to 10 per cent of the value of the permit for entertainment expenses, subject to a limit of «£ stg. 100 (or equivalent) per trip for teams led by the chairman of the firm or a director, and £ stg. 50 (or equivalent) for other teams. Exchange was also provided more liberally to exporters not satisfying the minimum requirements for the issue of blanket exchange permits. December 5. The middle rate for sterling was changed to Rs 18.1284 = <£ stg. 1. December 5. Imports of raw silk were channeled through a state trading agency. December 12. The Reserve Bank extended to Decem- ber 31, 1976 its permission to authorized dealers to extend loans or overdrafts to nonbank firms or compa- nies with a nonresident interest of more than 40 per cent, even if an application was pending for Reserve Bank permission to continue such a firm's activities. (The existing permission was valid until December 31, 1975.) December 29. The Reserve Bank issued a clarifica- tion of the tax liabilities attaching to Nonresident (Exter- nal) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts. Both types of account were exempt from income tax in respect of interest accruing on the bal- ances and wealth tax in respect of the balances held, but not from either estate duty or gift tax. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31,1975) Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968, only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their licenses and new for- eign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports f rom all sources of any secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include built-up sedans and station wagon sedans; components for the assembly of luxury-type automo- biles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in built-up or semi-knocked- down condition; built-up air conditioners, refrigerators, and electric sewing machines; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium glutamate; mattresses; certain types of cotton ya rn; and specified types of textiles, car tires, batteries, printed matter, office supplies, animal traps, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. The importing of cloves, fertilizers, rice, refined sugar, and wheat and wheat flour is restricted to specified approved importers. Imports of certain commodities for the "national iron stock" are reserved for state enterprises; they include cement, news- print, certain types of paper and automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving yarn, sheet iron, raw materials for maritime industries, pharmaceutical raw materials, and certain other items. No licenses are required for imports. In principle, all permitted imports may be paid for either with general exchange (Devisa Umum) or aid exchange (Devisa Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. In the Jakarta foreign exchange Bourse, transactions in U.S. dollars have since August 23, 1971 been effected at rates within 1 per cent either side of Rp 415 per US$1; on December 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates were Rp 414 and Rp 416, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the Jakarta rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. In the Jakarta foreign exchange Bourse three calls for exchange are conducted each week under the man- agement of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange in the call is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any w i l l ing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the for- eign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,1 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is admin- istered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in converti- ble currencies. Export proceeds must be received in Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian dollars (also referred to as r ingg i t ), Nether- lands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Indonesia has no operative payments agreements.2 INDONESIA ers of a value not exceeding US$100, and imports spe- cifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade (such as goods constituting part of a foreign investment). A rupiah deposit of 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of imports financed with aid exchange; for imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when they submit applications for letters of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the balance within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. Applications to foreign exchange banks for imports under merchant letters of credit must be accompanied by a deposit of 25 per cent of the value. The deposits are released to the importer only after the issuance by a foreign exchange bank of the KPP (certificate of import declaration) or when he presents correspondence from suppliers indicating that the merchant letter of credit has been canceled. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for nongovernment imports financed with aid exchange is left to the discretion of the author- ized bank if the latter purchases aid exchange forward from Bank Indonesia. Import duties, which are almost without exception ad valorem, are imposed on the c.i.f. value of the com- modities converted at the customs valuation rate (Rp 415 per US$1 on December 31, 1975). Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempt from import duties are also exempt from sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travel- ers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver commemorative coins; Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 may be taken out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person, while the limit applicable to gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 is Rp 130,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; clove seeds; pepper seeds; fertilizers; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madu ra ); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian Jaya ); iron scrap; and scrap of steel (from Java, Madura, and Suma tra). The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is required for the export of flat- bark crepe, cinchona bark, silver, and antiques of cul- tural value. Otherwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state trad- ing firms. 236 All exporters except certain mining companies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. For certain minor exports, including handicrafts, the exporter must surrender the full foreign exchange value prior to shipment if there is no banker's letter of credit.4 For the principal export commodities other than petroleum, the sales price must not be lower than "indication" prices ("check" prices) determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. The full proceeds from exports other than petroleum, prod- ucts of certain mining companies, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" traders are subject to sur- render (except in "border-crossing" trade, see below) and, except for finished goods, batik textiles and other handicrafts, plywood, fresh fish, and a number of other items, are subject to a 10 per cent export tax. Exports of petroleum and of products of certain mining compa- nies are also exempt from export tax. A specific cess is levied on exports of certain agricultural products and on inter-island trading in the same products. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export shipments must not exceed M$600 a month, if transported over- land, and M$600 a shipment, if transported by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed pri- marily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of Janu- ary 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, and by Presi- dential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a jo int venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely oper- ated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducemen ts offered are exemption f rom, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia) and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday from corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer per- mit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the 4 There are separate arrangements for exports of orchids. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments benefit from tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A special regime applies to enterprises previously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in within the context of rehabilitation and expansion programs that have been approved by the Government. The transfer of proceeds f rom the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations could take place with effect from January 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the proceeds each year, with a full guarantee as to their value in foreign cur- rency. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Gov- ernment is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effec- tive from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is guaranteed as to its value in foreign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaran- teed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DIGS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and private companies are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 30 per cent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no deposit requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or private companies. Certain borrowing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and /or the Ministry of Finance. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan f rom abroad. INDONESIA Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign national- ity may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited by virtue of Decision No. 68 /KP / IV /70 of April 17, 1970 of the Minister of Trade. Travelers may freely take out Indo- nesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person, and gold and silver coins issued as part of the "conservation coinage" in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an extra levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1975 January 13. The Director-General of Basic Industry issued an implementing decree for the application of the regulations of March 27, 1974 regarding imports of completely knocked-down motor vehicles. February 14. The use of aid exchange for imports of textiles was prohibited (Decree No. 407KP/11/75 of the Minister of Trade). March 31. It was confirmed that interest on money market paper was exempt from withholding tax (Decree No. 335 /MK / I I /4 /1975 of the Minister of Trade). April 5. The check prices on which customs and excise duties are calculated were increased for all imported textiles; those for low-quality textiles and weaving yarn were raised by 20 per cent and those for high-quality clothing materials by about 50 per cent. May 1. The check prices for imported textiles were fur ther increased by 25 per cent; that for weaving yarn, however, remained unchanged. July 9. Imports of goods for priority development projects could upon application be exempted from the MPO tax. July 21. The regulations governing imports without letter of credit under the Foreign Capital Investment Law were amended so as to ensure that importers could undertake no new import transactions before they had reported the realization of earlier ones (Decree No. 163 /KP /VH /75 of the Minister of Trade). August 28. The ban on the export of coconut oil and copra was lifted. September 2. The Minister of Trade announced that the exclusion of foreign firms from the import, export, distribution, and service sectors in the trade field (by virtue of Decision No. 314/KP/XII/1970) would take effect on January 1, 1978. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0108055 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial, corresponding to Rls 82.2425 = SDR 1. The exchange rate is maintained on the basis of this par value equivalent. Iran has availed itself of wider margins, and the intervention currency is the U.S. dol- lar. On December 31, 1975 the official rates of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central Bank) for the U.S. dollar, the only currency that is officially quoted, were Rls 69.15 buying, and Rls 69.40 selling, per US$1. The Central Bank also publishes daily exchange rates for 14 other currencies1 for purposes of the calculation of import registration fees and import duties; these rates are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the London market rates for the currencies concerned. There is a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market (or official rate market) with fixed U.S. dollar rates and a noncommercial market with fluctuating rates. Both markets operate w i th in the bank- ing system. The Central Bank stands ready to purchase from the commercial banks, at official rates, any foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services. Import payments must in principle be settled in the offi- cial rate market. Also settled at official rates are basic allocations for certain authorized current payments (travel, study, and medical treatment abroad) and, on the supply side, any export proceeds and other current receipts converted by public sector agencies (including the National Iranian Oil Company). Proceeds from exports other than oil, oil products, and natural gas, as well as the proceeds from exports of services, may be sold either in the official or the noncommercial market. All other payments and receipts are settled at the noncommercial market rate. However, transactions over clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars are in all cases settled at the official buying and selling rates. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions must take place through the Central Bank or authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Com- merce and approved by the Council of Ministers. For- eign trade relations with Albania and the Republic of China are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Company within the Ministry of Commerce. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 238 Prescription of Currency Transactions with six of the nine countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements2 must be con- ducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and North Korea must be conducted through accounts denominated in Iranian rials. Settlements with Mexico rnay optionally be made through a clearing account denom ina ted in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the other member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Un ion (Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian mone tary un i ts or in the currency of one of the countries that are parties to the individual contract con- cerned. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (exc lud ing border trade, petro- leum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Settlements with other coun- tries normally are settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used both for payments in Iran and for conversion into foreign curren- cies through the noncommercial market. Foreign nationals as well as Iranian physical or juridical persons may ma in ta in sight or time deposits in foreign curren- cies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annu- ally, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unau- thorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of goods whose importation is considered essential and including items which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic require- ments, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval 2 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are sub- ject to prior approval by government agencies (gener- ally the Ministry of Commerce) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose importation is not considered essential, inc lud ing goods whose local production is suff ic ient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted from the "autho- rized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports without payment through the official exchange market of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. How- ever, imports of "authorized" goods without payment are permitted without any l im i ta t ion, provided that regis- tration is made before the order is placed. Such imports up to US$5,000 are permitted without prior registration but are subject to the registration deposit; payments may be made either through the commercial or the noncom- mercial exchange market. In addition, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable ins t i tu t ions or government organizations; machinery; spare parts and raw or intermediate mate- rials for productive entities, up to US$1,000 a sh ipmen t; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$300 a shipment. Imports on this basis are exempt from the import registration deposit. The import of gifts, whether "authorized" or "unauthorized" commodi- ties, is restricted to Rls 10,000 a person a year. Specified commodities, such as sugar, wheat, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Payments may be made either against bills for collec- tion or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without prior authoriza- tion for goods (ma in ly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12 /5 /1344 ). Payments for imports of other goods may also be made against bills for collection without prior permission from the Central Bank, provided that the bills are settled w i th in nine months. All orders for imports must be registered with the Central Bank through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat- ing in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, an import regis- tration fee of 1 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate is collected by authorized banks. Imports brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of For- eign Investment in Iran are exempt f rom the fee. For some goods, importers must at the t ime of registration 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral expor t / import list for countries with which Tran has bilateral t rade and payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Commerce. IRAN lodge with the Central Bank, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the invoiced value. Most food items are exempt from the registration deposit. The deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate a f ter the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Central Bank may permit, when necessary, the sh if t ing of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the sh ipp ing documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange t rans fe r. Almost all imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial benefit tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the noncommercial market. In addition, there are certain allocations at the official rate for travel, study, and medical treatment abroad. Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insur- ance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange is not granted to exporters for insurance of Iran ian exports sold f.o.b. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance prem iums, although reinsurance premium payments are permitted. Autho- rized banks are permitted to remit interest on importers' suppliers' credit not exceeding 8.5 per cent; higher inter- est rates require special permission from the Central Bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assis- tan ts whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government may remit at the official rate about 50 per cent of their net salaries; any additional amounts may be remitted through the noncommercial marke t. The basic travel allowance for Iran ian and for- eign nationals —the equivalent of Rls 50,000 a person 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN a trip —may be made available by authorized banks at the official rate upon presentation of a valid passport and exit permit; each accompanying member of the passport holder's family is entitled to the same allowance, and there is no limit on the number of times a person may avail himself of this facility. Additional funds in respect of personal or business travel may be purchased freely in the noncommercial market. Banks may sell, at the official rate, up to the equivalent of Rls 200,000 a person to Iranian nationals traveling or residing abroad, for medical treatment; additional foreign exchange at the official rate can be obtained against medical bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad, and any fur- ther amounts may be purchased in the noncommercial market. Iranian physical and juridical persons may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources abroad, including export proceeds; bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferable. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-journey exit permit. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage travel. Lower rates apply to fam i ly members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7 to 18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to autho- rized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$100 into other currencies at the official rate, upon presenta- tion of their visaed passport, and may freely convert any additional amount in the noncommercial market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufactured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The Central Bank offers preferential discount facilities for export bills. The foreign currency proceeds of commodities other than petroleum, petroleum products, and natural gas may be retained abroad; if they are repatriated, they may be kept as foreign currency deposits with domestic banks or sold to the banking system either in the offi- cial exchange market or in the noncommercial market. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in U.S. dollars and other quoted currencies (see foot- note 1), but they are permitted to accept other curren- cies at their discretion. 240 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes; higher amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Private outward transfers of capital may be made through the noncommercial market, irrespective of their purpose. The retransfer abroad at the official sell- ing rate is permitted, provided that the inflow had been specifically authorized by the Central Bank. Authorized banks may freely accept inflows of foreign exchange f rom abroad (both deposits and borrowings) and lend the foreign currency to residents or sell it in the non- commercial market for rials; the rial counterpart may be lent to residents, but such lending is subject to the applicable credit ceilings. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official market selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. However, the Central Bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate remains applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported under this law in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the Central Bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing on the date of application for conversion. All conversions must take place in the official market (capital, profits and dividends, amortization, and liquida- tion proceeds). The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encour- ages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold No Iranian gold coins are legal tender.4 Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell 4 Article 2 ( d) of the Monetary and Banking Act prohibits the use of gold coins as legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold and silver in any form in Iran, and there is a free market for both. Authorized banks may freely import and export gold and silver (bullion only, which for gold must be at least "%ooo fine), against settlement through the official rate market, and sell these metals to any person in Iran. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Central Bank, while the import for industrial and dental use is effected by professional organizations, at the official rate and subject to super- vision by the Central Bank. The Central Bank accepts gold bullion on deposit f rom domestic banks as well as nonbank residents and issues gold certificates against such deposits. Travelers may freely import and export gold bullion and coins up to 1 kilogram a person a trip; the Central Bank is empowered to approve larger quan- tities. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports of gold are free from customs duty and com- mercial benefit tax but are subject to the 1 per cent import registration fee. Bank Melli Iran and other com- mercial banks give daily quotations for domestic sales. Changes during 1975 February 12. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The exchange rate would be maintained on the basis of its par value equivalent, Rls 82.2425 = SDR 1, and Iran continued to avail itself of wider margins of 2.25 per cent on the special drawing right. The U.S. dollar rates would be changed when the degree of fluctuation either side of the middle rate had exceeded the 2.25 per cent margin on five consecutive business days. On February 20, new buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were set at Rls 66.516 and Rls 66.766, respectively; previously, these rates were Rls 67.50 and Rls 67.75. February 13. The Central Bank announced its inten- tion to set up a forward exchange market. February 15. The Central Bank prohibited the import IRAN of certain iron and steel products except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry and Mines. March 21. The export-import regulations for the Iranian year 1354 were issued. Commercial benefit taxes were reduced or abolished on some 60 commodities; they were lowered for electric refrigerators, television sets, tape recorders, gas cookers, and other consumer goods, and abolished for a number of processed foods and furniture items. Nineteen items were moved from the unauthorized list to the authorized list. Three items were taken off the prohibited list. April 1. The import of new trailer trucks, compressor trucks, and lift trucks was permitted without prior approval. April 16. The import of space heaters, gas cookers, new construction and road-building machinery, tires and inner tubes, and certain chemicals and textiles was per- mitted without prior approval. May 7. Personal remittances of up to Rls 10,000 were no longer authorized for transfer through the official rate market but had to be transferred through the noncom- mercial market. July 1. The import of cotton and synthetic fiber textiles was permitted without prior approval. July 24. A payments agreement was signed with Mexico. It came into effect on the same day. The use of the agreement accounts was not mandatory. August 19. The gold clause was removed from the payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. August 19. The reserve requirement against the net short-term foreign liabilities of commercial banks was increased from 15 per cent (the level set in November 1974) to 30 per cent. September 4. Commercial banks were instructed by the Central Bank not to open new letters of credit for the import of used building equipment, trucks, and trailers. November 1. The Asian Clearing Union began opera- tions. The use of the agreement accounts was not mandatory. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar. The parity for the U.S. dollar, which is the inter- vention currency, is ID 1 = US$3.3778, and Iraq avails itself of wider margins. Transactions in the official mar- ket are carried out in any of the listed currencies 1 or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies, other than the U.S. dollar, for its transac- tions with authorized dealers only. The Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were US$3.394678 and US$3.377778, respec- tively, per ID 1. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; this authority is exe- cuted through the Foreign Exchange Committee (headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, his Deputy, or a member specified in advance by the Board of Adminis- tra t ion), which has delegated certain approval authority to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Adminis- tration. All branches of the Rafidain Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Council for the Regulation of Trade. The Directorate-General of Economics (Government and Private Import Section) in the Ministry of Econ- omy, two state organizations (dealing with trade in capital goods and consumer goods, respectively), the General Department for Industrial Promotion in the Ministry of Industry, and the Industrial Organization in the Ministry of Industry are the principal licensing authorities for imports and exports, but import licenses are also issued by certain other public organizations and government departments. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import pro- gram are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed curren- cies l or, under the bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China and Egypt, through the appropriate clearing account.2 Payments to and receipts from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976, settlements with the People's Republic of China and Egypt were placed on a convertible currency basis. 242 Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transac- tions permitted in convertible currencies may alterna- tively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordi- nary nonresident accounts, which arise f rom transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special non- resident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Furthermore, Iraqi nationals who have been working abroad for at least a year or who become residents after having been nonresidents may open accounts in foreign currencies with banks in Iraq and credit these with up to 50 per cent of their foreign savings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, including imports for the holder's personal use, imports of certain capital goods, or meeting expenditures abroad for travel, medical treat- ment, and study purposes; payments from these accounts up to the equivalent of ID 500 a year do not require Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of many commodities, including jute, sugar, tea, edible oil, certain medical supplies, machine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopoly. All pri- vate imports except those of the private sector oil com- panies require licenses; in principle these are issued in accordance with an annual import program, but this program has been made increasingly flexible, also for imports of consumer goods. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports f rom Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a Protection List are in principle prohibited from all sources. A tax of up to 15 per cent is levied on the amount of any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of l/2 of 1 per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of % of 1 per cent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pres- entation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments from foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above), all payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are'permitted to transfer up to 75 per cent of income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq; for workers and technicians this limit is 50 per cent. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist and business travel of ID 250 a trip for each person 12 years of age or over (ID 125 for children under 12) for trips of a month or less to Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey; for trips of over a month the allow- ance is increased to ID 300 (ID 150 for children under 12), and for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances are reduced to 50 per cent of the basic allowance. For travel to other countries, the basic allow- ance is ID 400 a trip for each person 12 years of age or over for trips not exceeding one month, ID 500 for longer trips, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent trips in the same calendar year. In addition, there are special allocations of up to ID 2,000 a person for medical treatment abroad, and of ID 800 for persons accompanying a patient. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, in addition to 50 per cent of the domestic currency equivalent of the foreign exchange allocated, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 200 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 100 for persons over 5 and under 18). On leaving the country, Iraqi nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to Gulf coun- tries or on an official mission the entire expense of which is borne by the Government. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Council for the Regulation of Trade may also prohibit the export of certain commodities. The export of certain items is reserved for the Marketing and Services Corporation. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them within 6-12 months after shipment. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding I r a n ), India, and Pakistan are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Some commodities may be exported on a com- pensation (bar ter) basis. This system links the export of certain "new" exports to the import of prohibited items. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. IRAQ Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Nonresidents who are engaged in border trade, however, may bring in ID 600 in Iraqi currency. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be con- verted into local currency at the official rate, and repatri- ation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. The transfer of profits net of income tax from foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies, and to 50 per cent of total profit for service companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentage. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations and entitled to preferential treatment in sev- eral other respects; interest payments are not subject to any ceilings. All transfers of capital abroad by resi- dents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval; such transfers are severely restricted. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in con- vertible currency freely through a licensed dealer for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible cur- rency. Similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals to bring in convertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the funds in foreign currency accounts, balances in which are freely transferable abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), certain incentives and guarantees may be granted to approved investments of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms except banks 3 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and 3 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribu- tion of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1975 February 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired. April 1. The import program for April-December 1975 came into effect. It made provision for imports valued at ID 1.15 billion for the period to December 31, 1975. This compared with an initial allocation of ID 1.26 billion under the previous program, which covered a full 12-month period and was subsequently increased to ID 1.81 billion. The program continued to give preference to capital goods and intermediate goods, rather than consumer goods. April 2. Increased basic exchange allocations for tourism and business travel came into force. (The re- quirement that 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of travel exchange purchased be deposited with an authorized bank had already been abolished on Decem- ber 22, 1974.) The special exchange allocation for medi- cal treatment abroad was also increased. June 25. The exchange allowances for remittances of income accruing to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq were increased. August 8. The Central Bank established a medium- term line of credit for US$500 million with a consor- tium of banks in the Euro-currency market. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Egypt and the People's Republic of China expired. 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 37, 7975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound. Since June 23, 1972, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Irish pound within prescribed margins, except for sterling. The Cen- tral Bank of Ireland quotes the pound sterling at par with the Irish pound, and transactions in sterling are free of commission. The Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other currencies, which are approximately equal to the rates quoted against sterling in London. As of December 31, 1975, the Central Bank's buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.0236 and US$2.0230 per Irish pound. Certain capital transactions involving investment currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at d ifferent effective rates; on Decem- ber 31, 1975 the investment currency premium was 61.84 per cent (based on the spot exchange rate of US$2.0230 per Irish pound ). Forward transactions between authorized banks and their customers must have an underlying commercial transaction. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are admin- istered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Irish exchange control regulations distinguish between (1) the Scheduled Territories, consisting of Ireland, Northern Ireland, Great Britain, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and Gibraltar, and (2) the rest of the world. The latter is subdivided into (1) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries which on June 23, 1972 ceased to be regarded as Scheduled Terri- tories;1 (2) EEC member countries other than the 1The Overseas Sterling Area thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, Solomon Islands, British V irg in Islands, Brune i, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, Grenada, Guyana, Hong Kong, Ice- land, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Malta, Mauritius and Dependency, Nau ru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependen- cies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South A f r ica, Namibia (South West A f r ica ), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu (Ellice Islands), Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. United Kingdom and Ireland; (3) Rhodesia; and (4) the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST), which consist of all other countries. Payments to and from other Scheduled Territories may be made freely in Irish pounds or pounds sterling; certain insurance payments between Scheduled Territories, however, may be made in foreign currencies.2 Authorized payments to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rho- desia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Residents are defined as persons who are permanently resident, for exchange control purposes, in the Scheduled Territories. However, some Irish regulations are in terms of Irish residents (residents of Ireland) only. Ireland is a Scheduled Terri- tory for purposes of the exchange control regulations of the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of per- sons resident in countries outside the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated Exter- nal Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or sterling, with the proceeds in Irish pounds or sterling of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resi- dent of a country outside the Scheduled Territories to an authorized bank in Ireland, and with the proceeds of Irish currency notes (the crediting of notes in denomina- tions exceeding <£Ir 10 requires specific approval) or sterling notes received from outside the Scheduled Terri- tories. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than those of a Sched- uled Territory. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to three types of admin- istrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.3 Indi- vidual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain tex- tiles and yarns originating in any of 16 specified coun- tries or territories.4 Second, imports of certain goods from non-EEC sources may from time to time be subject to restriction or surveillance by virtue of EEC decisions, directives, or regulations. All other imports generally are free of quantitative restrictions. Under the third type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originat- ing outside the Scheduled Territories, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. In addition, Ireland has since June 1975 operated a system of surveillance licensing for imports from all sources of certain foot- wear, clothing, and other textiles, and for imports from non-EEC sources of specified other footwear; under this system, licenses generally are issued virtually automatically. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding <£Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions out- side the Scheduled Territories. Payments to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisi- bles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of <£Ir 300 a person for each trip. 3 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradually increased in accordance with EEC commitments and with an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements are made on a global basis, although the obligations relate only to goods origi- na t ing in the United Kingdom and the other EEC countries. 4 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hunga ry, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 246 For business travel, up to <£Ir 2,000, at a rate of <£Ir 40 a day, is allowed for each journey, or alternatively up to £Jr 300 for each trip. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than <£Ir 300 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the fo rm of currency notes. Persons travel- ing to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to «£Ir 25 in Scheduled Territory currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign cur- rency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on exports to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Scheduled Territories must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if their value exceeds <£ Ir 100. When payment is received in foreign curren- cies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding <£Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return f rom a tr ip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of capital between Ireland and other Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control and take place at the official exchange rate. Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sched- uled Territories. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to OSA countries, EEC member coun- tries other than the United Kingdom, or RNST countries are approved up to a limit of <£Ir 20,000 a family; there is no such allowance for emigration to Rhodesia. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds <£Ir 20,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure f rom Ireland. After the four-year period, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution non-Scheduled Territory residents who have never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred outside the Scheduled Territories through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Irish registered securities or in sterling securities.5 For Irish residents taking up employment and resi- dence in an EEC country other than the United King- dom, applications are considered to transfer Irish or U.K. assets to their new country of residence in excess of «£Ir 20,000; the additional facilities are authorized at the official rate of exchange if they are shown to be appropriate to ensure the applicant's freedom to take up employment in the country concerned. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emigration are considered on their merits, but there are special facilities for residents taking up employment in EEC countries other than the United Kingdom and for direct investment in such countries. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment from outside the Scheduled Territories requires exchange control approval (which normally is granted) 6 and net inflows into the banks may be subject to guidelines set from time to time by the Central Bank. Since January 16, 1973, banks have been requested to deposit with the Central Bank 50 per cent of any net capital inf lows ;7 however, subject to prior consultation with the Central Bank, the deposit require- ment may be waived for capital inflows that assist in the financing of major industrial development projects. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign cur- rencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale mainly of foreign currency securi- ties 8 sold outside the Scheduled Territories, may be fully reinvested in foreign currency securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is carried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in foreign currency certificates of deposit and similar paper 5 Securities solely payable in pounds sterling and quoted on a recog- nized security market within the Scheduled Territories. 6 On January 1, 1976 the exchange control regulations governing direct investment in Ireland were reissued. No policy changes were involved but existing policy and procedures were clarified and a sec- tion on intercompany accounts was introduced. 7 At present the base date by reference to which inflows are measured is February 18, 1975. 8 Foreign currency securities are all securities on which capital monies and dividends are payable or optionally payable in a foreign currency and that are quoted on a recognized security market. IRELAND with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on maturity or resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment cur- rency is not exceeded. The entire foreign currency pro- ceeds from the sale outside the Scheduled Territories of property for personal use owned by residents are nor- mally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; where part of such a property is sold, the full foreign currency proceeds must be sold in the official exchange market. Residents may obtain, sub- ject to individual permission, reasonable amounts of investment currency to purchase from non-Scheduled Territory residents property outside the Scheduled Terri- tories for personal use; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with investment currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a fam i ly. Purchases from residents of the Scheduled Territories must be settled in sterling. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Scheduled Territories. Direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories requires prior approval and may normally be financed with investment currency or by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom. The foreign currency proceeds of the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories are not normally eligible for sale in the investment cur- rency market. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between residents of the Scheduled Territories. Specific approval is required for all dealings by Irish residents in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans to OSA countries are normally permitted up to <£Ir 1,000 a donor a calendar year; the corresponding limit for other non-Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia is «£Ir 300 a donor a year. For dependents, an additional amount of up to <£Ir 2,000 a donor a year in cash gifts or personal loans may be remitted to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. Authorized banks may freely accept deposits in for- eign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Terri- tories and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrowing from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories; such applications are considered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the econ- omy. Public sector borrowing outside the Scheduled Territories is undertaken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories is not normally permitted, 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be pro- vided by the banks to members of non-Scheduled Terri- tories' diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland, and except that banks may freely make available loan and overdraft facilities in Irish pounds or sterling to residents of OSA countries, provided that the underlying transac- tion is a trade transaction or one associated with the movement of goods. Provided that the company is not a medium for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of an EEC-controlled company can, subject to exchange control approval, obtain from Irish banks all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coins and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permis- sion to buy or export gold coins or bullion normally is given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial pur- poses, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not per- mitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accord- ance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 1. A revised customs tariff schedule took effect. The changes included (1) a further reduction of 20 per cent in duties on imports f rom EEC member states other than the United Kingdom; (2) a 20 per cent reduction in duties on imports of U.K. and Northern Irish origin of those goods not subject to tar iff reduc- tions under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; and (3) a fur ther move toward alignment of the full and the preferential rates of customs duties with the rates in the common customs tariff of the EEC. January 1. Direct investment by Irish residents in EEC countries was formally liberalized, the use of offi- cial exchange being allowed for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom. Previously, the use of official exchange for this purpose was subject in principle to a limit of £Ir 250,000 a project a year, while appli- cations to transfer larger amounts at the official exchange rate were considered on their merits. January 1. New import quotas came into effect for superphosphates (not of U.K. origin) and for miscel- laneous textiles and textile piece goods (when originat- ing in countries specified in footnote 4, above). 248 January 15. The 1975 budget provided for govern- ment borrowing abroad of <£Ir 225 million and foreign borrowing by public enterprises of <£Ir 50 million. April 16. Following the imposition of restrictions on imports of gold coins by the United Kingdom on April 15, specific exchange control permission was again required for the purchase of gold coins outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coins or bul- lion outside Ireland henceforth was normally given only for numismatic or industrial purposes, respectively. Pre- viously, specific permission was not required to import gold coins from elsewhere in the Scheduled Territories, and permission to export gold coins to elsewhere in the Scheduled Territories was given for all bona fide transactions. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transac- tions was renewed for one year. June 12. Ireland unilaterally introduced a system of surveillance over imports f rom all sources of certain footwear, clothing, and other textiles and over imports f rom non-EEC sources of specified footwear under tariff heading 64.02A. Licenses would generally be issued virtually automatically. July 1. A revised customs tariff schedule took effect. The main changes were (1) the tenth and final annual reduction in duties on imports of U.K. or Northern Irish origin under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement took place, involving the abolition of customs duties on virtually all industrial products originating in the United Kingdom or Northern Ireland; and (2) import quota restrictions on several items were abolished, including superphosphates. July 1. The global import quotas for specified indus- trial items lapsed; these items then were fully liberalized f rom all sources. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 1. Personal clothing and footwear, whether domestically produced or imported, were completely relieved of value-added tax. July 10. The Commission of the EEC authorized Ire- land to apply un t il December 31, 1975, a 10 per cent import duty on leather footwear originating in the United Kingdom. On December 23, the Commission authorized the application of this duty in 1976 to imports f rom all sources, inside or outside the EEC. August 4. A National Foreign Trading Company, with 20 per cent Irish Government participation, was established. It was to purchase commodities from devel- oping countries in order to ensure stable supplies to Irish trade and industry. It also was to endeavor to improve export opportunities of small and medium enterprises in Ireland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 4. The EEC informed the GATT that the European Communities were withdrawing the invoca- tion of Article XXXV of the General Agreement with respect to Japan, insofar as this concerned Ireland. The relevant decision by the Council of the European Com- munities took effect 30 days after this notification. August 18. The amount in foreign currency notes which may be exported by travelers, in their baggage or on their person, was increased from <£Ir 250 to <£Ir 300. The limit of ,£25 in Irish or British notes continued to apply. September 16. The Government raised a US$250 million medium-term Euro-dollar bank loan, September. It was announced that imports of motor vehicles from the enlarged EEC would remain subject to quotas in 1976. IRELAND 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System1 The par value is 0.120370 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound. On August 5, 1975, however, the authorities ceased to ensure that the exchange rate for the Israel pound would be based on its par value. They establish from time to t ime the buying rate of the Israel pound in terms of the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1975 this rate was I .£7.10 = US$1. The Bank of Israel estab- lishes buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies, based on the rate for the U.S. dollar. Authorized banks are permitted to buy and sell foreign currencies at spot rates d ifferent from those officially quoted by the Bank of Israel, but they may quote rates only within the range established by the quotations of the latter. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation w i th other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries w i th which pay- ments agreements are in force 2 are usually made in U.S. dollars as an accounting un i t. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign cur- rency accounts or on local currency accounts. The open- ing of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The principal type of nonresi- dent foreign currency account is the PATACH account. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account; he may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the official rate of exchange. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of the following types: (1) Registered Accounts —for payments to and hold- ings of foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for nontransferable holdings of former residents —may be established only with special approval. Funds acquired from the sale of real estate and awaiting repatriation must also be held in Registered Accounts. Aviation, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local requirements; film companies may do so under indi- 1W i th effect from February 16, 1976 a surcharge of 15 per cent was applied to purchases of fore ign exchange for payments in respect of certain invisibles, including foreign travel. 2 Brazil and Portugal. 250 vidual arrangements made with each company. Regis- tered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israeli securities, for pur- chase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I <£ 250 a day 3 for the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly, for remittances of up to I £15,000 a year in support of relatives who are resi- dents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, arid for donations to public and charitable institutions. Funds representing the sales proceeds of certain real estate become transfer- able a f ter five years, in equal installments over the following five-year period. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. ( 2) Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts —to hold the proceeds from the conversion by tourists or travel agents of any kind of foreign currency and of Development Loan bonds. (3) Other nonresident accounts in local currency may be used to hold funds derived from former investments that are eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Balances may be transferred freely between nonresi- dents. The accounts may be liquidated at any time by the purchase of foreign exchange at the official rate; such fore ign exchange may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a PATACH account. Funds in these accounts may also be used within Israel by conversion into Israel pounds, and no limit is placed on the amount that may be withdrawn. Israeli residents who are temporarily living and earn- ing abroad may maintain foreign currency in temporary PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may only convert these funds into local currency at the official exchange rate. Immi- grants and temporary residents have the right to maintain foreign currency deposits in PAMAZ accounts for the first ten years after arrival in Israel. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK accounts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated f rom domestic sources, or TAMAM accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and disability pensions. PAZAK accounts are demand or time deposit accounts denominated in convertible currencies. All foreign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the Ministry of Finance but including export proceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accounts with authorized dealers, who must redeposit the foreign cur- 3 Increased to I £400 a day in February 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rency funds with the Bank of Israel. Account holders may retain foreign exchange in this manner or may exchange it into local currency. Account holders may use foreign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts to make any authorized foreign payments. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but only among members of the immediate fam i ly of the account holder. TAMAM accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with authorized deal- ers, who must redeposit the foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. One third of convertible exchange receipts derived from personal restitution payments and from pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served dur- ing World War II may be credited to TAMAM accounts. The permitted uses of TAMAM accounts include the following: (1) the purchase through the medium of the authorized bank holding the account of foreign securities denominated in convertible foreign currency that are registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries; (2) payment of premiums on existing life insurance policies denominated in foreign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equ iva lent of US$450 a trip, provided that not more than the equivalent of US$1,800 a trip is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly; 4 and (4) payment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. NATAD accounts are t rans fer accounts in foreign exchange that are used ma in ly for transactions in foreign securities. As stated above, holders of TAMAM accounts may purchase abroad foreign securities denominated in convertible foreign currency and registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securi- ties thus acquired may be traded freely between resi- dents, through the intermediary of the authorized bank that is the depository, against payment either with NATAD or TAMAM funds or in Israel pounds. If the origi- nal buyer resells securities bought with TAMAM account funds for foreign currency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign securities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase further foreign securities but are not negotiable between residents. If foreign securities are sold between residents against Israel pounds, the conversion factor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 31, 1975, it stood at I£8.70 per U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources and all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of goods * US$3,000 a tr ip if no TAMAM funds have been used for this pur- pose for three years. ISRAEL listed in the Free Import Orders are free of all licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. Other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List, licenses are issued auto- matically upon application. Other permissible imports constitute the Restricted List. All commodities whose importation is not liberalized are listed in a Negative List. Six basic food products (frozen meat, milk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted auto- matically. All individual import licenses must be coun- tersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Con- trol of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the foreign currency required may be purchased at the time of opening the credit. Funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel un t il transfer is made. Licenses are not issued for imports of goods on consignment unless the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$100,000 or more within three months. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits; foreign currency financing is not normally permitted except for raw materials or capital goods. Virtually all imports are subject to an import sur- charge of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The main exemptions are for newsprint and uncut diamonds. A purchase tax is levied on almost all imported and domes- tically produced goods, other than capital goods. Payments for Invisibles 5 Most payments abroad for invisibles require individ- ual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equiva- lent to US$10-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, mem- bership dues, and registration in a university. For tour- ist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equiva- lent to US$450 a traveler for each journey (US$350 for children under 12).6 For travel for business reasons, the allowance is US$50 a d a y7 for the first 21 days. Exporters are not subject to these limits and may use additional funds resulting from export proceeds. Not more than I £200 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign cur- rency up to US$30. Adult residents traveling abroad 5 See also footnote 1. 8 With effect f rom February 16, 1976 the children's allowance was reduced to US$150. 7 Increased to US$60 a day in February 1976. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL must pay a travel tax of I £750 plus 15 per cent of the price of the ticket.8 Travelers to specified countries are taxed at a lower rate; these include Cyprus, Ethiopia, and Romania. Immigrants and their families are exempt from travel tax for three years from the date of immi- gration or of entry as temporary residents. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. For some commodities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners; this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export pro- ceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PAZAK account. Exports of most commodities are eligible for incentive payments calculated on the gross value of exports and based on domestic value added; they are designed to rebate estimated internal indirect taxes and the import surcharge. At the end of 1975, the payment for diamonds was I<£1.80 per US$1 of domestic value added, and for other commodities the payment ranged from I<£1 .32 to I<£1.85 per US$19 of gross export value, with the higher rates applicable to commodities with a higher proportion of domestic value added. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebate of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in for- eign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments abroad. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate; such receipts must be surrendered within a few days. Hotels are eligible for indirect tax rebates based on the length of stay of foreign tourists; on December 31, 1975 the rebate was I £0.55 per US$1. One third of the foreign exchange received by resi- dents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts and the other two thirds may be held in PAZAK accounts. For ten years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these foreign currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. 8 With effect from February 16, 1976 the travel tax was increased to I£1,000 plus 15 per cent of the price of the ticket for adults; for children the tax was levied at I £500 plus 15 per cent of the price of the ticket. 9 Increased to a range of up to I£2.03 per US$1 with effect from March 1, 1976. 252 Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I <£ 200 in Israel bank- notes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I £250 a day for themselves and the same amount for each mem- ber of their families; if they are holders of other non- resident local currency accounts, they may draw on them without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident must be surrendered at the offi- cial rate or held in a PAZAK account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accord- ance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, per- mits a nonresident who has made an "approved" invest- ment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fulfill one of the fol- lowing conditions: (1) that they are established either in "priority areas" or in less developed areas; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; (3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area or in a less developed area, its production is of the import-substitution type; or (4) that the project aims at facilitating the absorption of imm igran ts. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to transfer abroad the principal or the interest or profits on his investment are concerned, and repayments and amo r t iza t ion of capital may also be transferred (for real estate, the transfer is subject to "five-year" and "ten- year" res tr ic t ions). However, the difference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax, con- cessions, and grants. The principal of foreign investments made prior to January 1, 1958, or made af ter that date in foreign exchange, can be transferred abroad. The proceeds of investments in real estate, however, can only be trans- ferred five years a f ter its purchase, in five equal annual installments over the following five-year period. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. Any resident may retain real estate abroad, but not money, securities, or the income f rom such assets; in addition, new immi- grants may retain their liquid assets for ten years. Trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fers abroad of a capital na ture by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at stock exchanges in speci- fied foreign countries. Foreign securities purchased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel either against foreign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits or against Israel pounds. The proceeds of the sale may be credited to the TAMAM account previously debited for the pur- chase. The owner of foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is also allowed to sell them to residents against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his turn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to holders of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD account. This is the only manner in which NATAD accounts can be established. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign currency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the pro- cedure being the same. A general license allows authorized dealers to pur- chase real estate in Israel for nonresidents. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase shares, provided that pur- chases are financed with converted foreign currency; debentures, however, may be purchased by nonresidents only if they are quoted on the Tel Aviv stock exchange. Direct loans in any form to or from nonresidents are subject to licensing. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches. Gold can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Other residents are forbidden to trade in gold, to trans- fer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are transacted by five importing wholesalers. These whole- salers may sell the gold only to purchasers registered with the Purchase Tax Administration. The latter checks these purchases by each manufac turer against the gold content of products marked as "purchase tax paid" in order to eliminate the possibility of sales of these quantities of gold on the market as bullion. Changes during 1975 January 1. Export rebates for goods other than dia- monds were increased from a range of up to I £1.30 ISRAEL to a range of up to I ,£1.64 per U.S. dollar of gross export value. The special rebate for exports of diamonds was changed from I<£0.20 per U.S. dollar to I£0.75 per U.S. dollar of domestic value added, with effect from January 9. (The latter rebate was increased to I £1.05 on June 6, and to I £1.80 on December 12.) January 1. The rebate of indirect tax applicable to tourist hotels, abolished in November 1974, was reintro- duced at the rate of I£0.34 per U.S. dollar. February 1. Authorized banks' power to grant gen- eral approval for foreign exchange transactions by local firms holding foreign currency balances in domestic banks or in designated banks abroad was suspended. This authority was subsequently restored progressively in modified form. April 1. It was announced that henceforth export rebates would be increased each month at a rate speci- fied in advance. For the 12 months through March 1976, they would be raised for goods other than diamonds by I £0.04 per U.S. dollar of gross export value each month. April 1. The temporary import surcharge of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value was extended to March 31, 1976. April 1. The indirect tax rebate applicable to tourist hotels was increased to I £0.44 per U.S. dollar. April 1. Government reimbursements of exporters' sales expenses for additional sales in 1975 to five coun- tries (Cyprus, Ecuador, Japan, South Africa, and Vene- zuela) were doubled to I£0.20 per U.S. dollar of increases in exports to these destinations. April 29. Exporters doing a specified minimum vol- ume of export business ceased to be exempt from travel tax on business trips. April 30. The foreign exchange allowance for busi- ness travel was increased to US$50 a day for the first 21 days. May 1. The indirect tax rebate applicable to tourist hotels was increased to I £0.48 per U.S. dollar. May 1. The temporary prohibition of November 1974 on imports of 30 luxury items was revoked. May 1. The temporary increase in customs duties of 10 percentage points, imposed on 38 items in Novem- ber 1974, was rescinded. May 11. A new trade agreement was signed with the EEC; it came into force on July 1. June 1. The indirect tax rebate applicable to tourist hotels was increased to I £0.52 per U.S. dollar. June 17. The Government authorized the Ministers of Finance, Commerce and Industry, and Justice to act as a committee that, with the approval of the Prime Minister and in consultation with the Governor of the Bank of Israel, was empowered to depreciate the Israel pound by up to 2 per cent at a time, provided that at least 30 days have passed since the last change in the exchange rate. June 17 (Washington time). The par value of the Israel pound was changed from 0.122777 gram of fine 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL gold to 0.120370 gram of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar, previously I £6.00 = US$1, became I £6.12 = US$1. Israel continued to avail itself of wider marg ins. It was also announced that fu r ther ad jus tment in the exchange rate would be made from time to time as appropriate. June 17. The indirect tax rebate applicable to tourist hotels was increased to I£0.55 per U.S. dollar. June 17. Working balances in foreign exchange held by banks and firms other than insurance and maritime companies were subjected to devaluation levies. July 1. Import du ty reductions of 10 per cent of exist- ing rates were made on 1,300 tar iff items, in two stages up to August 1. (A similar measure was taken on January 1, 1976.) August 5 (Israeli time). It was announced that the Israeli authorities would no longer assure that the exchange rate for the Israel pound would be based on its par value, and that with immediate effect the buying rate of the Israel pound was changed to I<£6 .24 = US$1, with relatively narrow margins. Fur ther adjust- ments in the exchange rate would be made from t ime to time. The policy of monthly increases in export rebates would be discontinued. September 1. The temporary prohibition of Novem- ber 1974 on imports of passenger automobiles was revoked. September 9 (Israeli time). The buying rate for the Israel pound was changed f rom I £6.24 — US$1 to I£6.36 = US$1. September 28 (Israeli time). The buy ing rate for the Israel pound was changed f rom I£6.36 = US$1 to I£7.00 = US$1. September. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria expired. The balance outstanding on termina- tion was settled in November. November 2. The import deposit requirement intro- duced in May 1974 was abolished; the rate of deposit had last been 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value. November 24 (Israeli time). The buying rate for the Israel pound was changed f rom I £7.00 = US$1 to I£7 .10 = US$1. November 30. Authorized banks converting foreign currency of any k ind for tourists, or converting Devel- opment Loan bonds, were advised to credit the proceeds to Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts, which could be used by tourists to obtain exemption f rom local taxes. Funds held in tourists' nonresident or blocked accounts could be transferred for this purpose to the credit of Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts. In addition, travel agents could establish Tourist Demand Deposit Accounts; such accounts could be credited with the proceeds from the conversion of foreign currency debited to PAZAK accounts and received by travel agents as advances for tourists' reservations. Banks were also instructed to open for each hotel an account denominated in Israel pounds to which its proceeds from tourism must be credited, so that banks could issue hotels a monthly certification, expressed in U.S. dollars and calculated at the official exchange rate, of a hotel's foreign currency receipts f rom tourists as reflected in these accounts. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira. A central rate of Lit 581.500 = US$1 has been established. On February 13, 1973, however, Italy notified the Fund that for the time being the exchange rate for the lira on the official market for current trans- actions would not necessarily be confined within the announced limits either in respect of the U.S. dollar or in respect of EEC currencies. The rate for the U.S. dol- lar on December 31, 1975 was about Lit 684 per US$1.1 The monetary authorities do not in principle intervene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces, although the Bank of Italy (the central bank) may from time to time offer the commercial banks cer- tain swap facilities. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in major convertible and externally convertible curren- cies,2 when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of forward transactions against lire is subject to a limit on net transactions set individually for each bank. For- ward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Public corporations which have been instructed to borrow abroad on behalf of the Bank of Italy receive full forward cover for their debt service payments. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi or UIC) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this pur- pose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the 1 Official quotations were suspended f rom January 21, 1976 but were resumed on March 1, when the closing rate for the U.S. dollar was about Lit 771. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as convertible cur- rencies or conto valutario currencies. Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, special arrange- ments are applicable under a debt liquidation agreement with that country. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.3 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies.4 They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other For- eign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, for payments due to residents on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal prop- erty or real estate in Italy. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of Febru- ary 7', 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents 3 A Ministerial Decree of February 4, 1976 provided for the estab- lishment of Emigrants' Foreign Currency Accounts. Implementing regulations were issued by the UIC on March 26 (Circular No. A328). Such accounts had to be denominated in conto valutario currencies. They could be credited with remittances (including banknotes) effected direct to the bank from abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or salary earnings if credits were to exceed Lit 150,000 a month) and with interest on the balances; they could be debited freely for conver- sion into lire, for withdrawals in foreign banknotes (up to Lit 100,000, for re turn trips abroad), and for transfers abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area workers"). These accounts could not be held by Italian representatives abroad or by Italian staff employed by interna- tional organizations. 4 With effect from February 26, 1976 the banks' power to credit for- eign banknotes and credit instruments expressed in foreign currency without prior authorization was limited to Lit 1 million in a calendar year for banknotes and credit instruments not remitted to the banks direct from abroad. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accor- dance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, or f rom other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Practically all imports from other countries except the People's Republic of China, Japan, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA countries are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions; all goods, however, require a bank certificate (benestare bancario) for submission to the customs authorities and sometimes also a license issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported f rom these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import)? Some items in the list require an import license only when o r ig ina t ing in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Egypt and Yugoslavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct f rom the country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports of raw cotton, rice, and crude petro- leum from Egypt, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. (Seventy per cent of the value of other imports f rom Egypt must be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in any OECD country, and 30 per cent must be paid in lire to Egypt's lira account with the UIC.) A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when originating in and imported f rom Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. There is a special list of commodi- ties, also included in Tabella B Import, whose importa- tion is unilaterally and de facto liberalized when they both originate in and are shipped from Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, or the U.S.S.R. These goods may be admitted by the customs without a license, although some require a visa issued by the Institute of Foreign Trade. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the 5 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Japan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 256 goods that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported f rom that country; some other items are included in a special list of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods of Japanese o r ig in6 may be imported freely without an individual license, irrespective of the country f rom which they are shipped. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regula- tions are also applied to imports from non-EEC coun- tries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 mil- lion in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days af ter impor ta t ion. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 30 days before importation.7 For all authorized imports, the authorized banks pro- vide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject in the case of payments to Switzerland to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted, except for tour- ist travel and travel for business, study, or health rea- sons; their authority to sell exchange for family remit- tances is limited to Lit 35,000 a transfer. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or investments. Residents may use in terna t ional postal money orders for payments, subject in the case of payments to Switzerland to a limit of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the M in is try of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: ( 1) contracts which require a permit if they involve 6 All goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of Circular No. 606360 of May 28, 1963 (as amended). 7 Increased in January 1976 to 60 days before importation. With effect f rom March 1976 advance payments in excess of Lit 2 million had to be made with foreign currency derived f rom foreign currency f inanc ing provided by authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution residents of specified countries8 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transac- tions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single t r i p ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights, in fo rma- tion agencies, etc. (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million for each contract); copyrights ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year for each con trac t); services of pro- fessional workers and company managers ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expen- ditures for production abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of operation; 9 and other transactions not permitted by general authorization (when the amoun ts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical treat- ment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 500,000);10 the UIC grants foreign exchange above these allowances (except for tourism), provided that it is satisfied that this is jus t i- fied in the light of the duration and purpose of the trip. To the extent that he refra ins from ob ta in ing an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 35,000.n Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 35,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an autho- 8 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, People's Republic of China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. •Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. 10 With effect from February 27, 1976 the amount that could be taken out in the form of foreign currency or travelers checks was reduced from Lit 500,000 to Lit 65,000; up to Lit 435,000 could be taken out in letters of credit, foreign payment orders, or non transfer- able checks drawn on foreign banks. The amount of Lit 65,000 could be increased to Lit 100,000, however, to the extent that the traveler refrained from taking out domestic bankno tes (the l im it for which remained unchanged at Lit 35,000). "Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 35,000 a day in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins com- bined, of which foreign notes and coins must not exceed the equivalent of Lit 15,000. ITALY rized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out the payments operations related to his export transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days before exportation or more than 90 days after exportation.12 Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment (see section on Capital, below), 90 per cent of exchange receipts must be collected within 90 days of shipment,12 and these must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt, while 10 per cent must be collected within 24 months of shipment. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipi- ents in Ordinary Foreign Currency Accounts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for one month, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized trans- actions or to negotiate them freely with the UIC or among themselves.13 After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the UIC at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 100,000 for each payment, and in certain circumstances, in foreign banknotes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports.13 Shipping and insurance com- panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally conver- tible European currencies. Residents may not retain any foreign banknotes left over f rom trips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and Lit 35,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any kind from nonresidents to residents and f rom residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury 12 Increased in Janua ry 1976 to 120 days. 13 Foreign currency may be retained in Ordinary Foreign Exchange Accounts un t il the second weekday after the end of the first calendar mon th following that in which the individual exchange receipt con- cerned was credited to the foreign exchange account. (This average retention period of 45 days was reduced to 15 days in February 1976; at the same time, the permission to retain until the end of the year cer ta in excess balances in Conti Autorizzati was revoked. The retention period was f u r t h er reduced to 7 days on May 6, 1976.) 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or ma in ta in ing las t ing economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and, with regard to EEC coun- tries, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of services); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement is applicable to outward trans- fers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, portfolio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for investment fund securities, but mu tual funds investing entirely in I ta l ian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addi- tion, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the local Bank of Italy office. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EEC institutions are exempt. Outward direct investment transactions have from time to time been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, gov- erned by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and sub- sequent implementing regulations. Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, including both direct and port- folio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any form and w i thout any limit.14 Direct investment in other countries may be made only (under the supervision of the UIC) by jur id ical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (a f ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to 14 Financial investment, i.e., investment not intended to establish per- manent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regulations governing direct investment are also not applicable to participations in "holdings" abroad of any kind. 258 bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any fore ign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on for- eign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited w i th an Italian bank or w i th a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any k ind ( inc lud ing mu tual f u n d s ), as well as con- vertible bonds issued by such ins t i tu t ions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authorization f rom the M in is try of For- eign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authori- zation is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including that of invest- ing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and that of setting up a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require au thor iza t ion to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Min- istry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules govern ing the issue in Italy of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 m i l l ion, that of the M in is try of Treasury, the M in is t ry of Industry, and the In te rm in is te r ial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to in te rna t ional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of prop- erty of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the t ime of leaving Italy, and the rema inder subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. Banks' authority to sell foreign exchange for cash gifts is limited to Lit 35,000 a remittance. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importation is to take place within 30 days (but see footnote 7 ); in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 5 million,15 an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, w i th in 360 days after importation, and the balance within 24 months after impor ta t ion; such payments require the prior approval of the UIC if the settlement is to take place between 15 Increased to Lit 10 million on Janua ry 2, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 months and 24 months a f ter impo r ta t ion. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of For- eign Trade is required; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days a f ter the date of impor ta t ion, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M in is try of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred paymen ts for exports are per- mitted if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent within 90 days after exportation, and the balance within 24 mon ths af ter exportation (but see footnote 12 ). For settlement between 90 and 360 days after exportation, the approval of the UIC is required; in all other cases such receipts requ ire the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. V ir tua l ly identical regulations are in force for the per- mitted credit terms for impor ts and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal grant- ing of credits for commercial transactions or the per- formance of services, w i th a m a tu r i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected a f ter exam ina t ion of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain dura t ion, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as ind ica ted above. The export of I ta l ian and fore ign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonres iden ts and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses ( 1) the spot position vis-a-vis nonresidents in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EEC currencies, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ceiling on their net foreign liability position but are prohibited from m a in t a in ing a net foreign asset position. Gold 16 Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, w i th the exception of un re f ined gold ITALY imported under ministerial license for industrial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the Ministry of the Treasury may acquire un re f ined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for indus t r ial use. Exports of wrought and semimanu- fac tured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licens- ing. Imports of unrefined gold are subject to value- added tax at 12 per cent.17 Imports of gold coins for num i sm a t ic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quan t i ta t ive import regulations were made in accordance w i th EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 13. The UIC in fo rm ed banks that du r ing 1975 imports f rom the People's Republic of China of specified textile products and certain crockery would require licenses f rom the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Pend ing the issuance of such licenses, banks could not open irrevocable credits for the goods concerned and had to suspend the issue of bank approvals for existing or unused credit openings. January 20. The UIC tightened the reporting require- men ts in respect of banks' overall forward exchange positions, w i th effect f rom February 1. January 21. The Ministry of Foreign Trade delegated to the UIC the au tho r i ty to perm it the open ing of, and changes in balances in, authorized foreign currency accoun ts (Conti Autorizzati) in the names of shipping lines, a ir l ines, insurance companies, and certain other firms. January 31. The M in is t ry of Foreign Trade delegated to the UIC the approval au tho r i ty for payments for impo r ts and services due more than 360 days after the date of impo r ta t ion but settled on a date earlier than the due date, provided the UIC held ju r isd ic t ion over the required domiciliation of such a transaction. Circular No. A286 was revoked. January 31. The UIC in fo rmed banks that with effect f rom March 1, loans to and from foreign countries had to be domiciled w i th the bank in i t i a t ing the transaction. All subsequent stages of the transac t ion had to be chan- neled through the same bank. New reporting require- men ts were in troduced for such loans and their servicing, February 12. The ceiling on funds available for export credit insurance was raised from Lit 700 billion to Lit 1.4 t r i l l ion. In add i t ion, the ceiling on the ref inanc ing facilities for export credits was raised by Lit 100 billion to Lit 150 billion. 16 The supervision over imports and domestic purchases of un re f ined gold for indus tr ial purposes was tightened in February 1976. 17 Reduced to zero with effect f rom January 1, 1976. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY March 31. The issue by banks and tourist organiza- tions of credit cards valid for use abroad required the prior authorization of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The validity for use abroad of credit cards already issued became subject to various conditions. March 24. The import deposit requirement imposed in May 1974 was abolished. Existing deposits were released over the next six months. The rate of deposit had been 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value for most imports from all sources. The principal exemptions were for raw materials, energy products, and capital goods; the rate of deposit for beef and certain cattle was 25 per cent. April 1. Quantitative controls on the expansion of bank credit were abolished. Bank credit for the f inanc- ing of exports had been exempt from the ceilings since December 1974. April 2. The UIC restored the banks' freedom to guarantee foreign bank credits to Italian importers. The right to do so had been revoked in May 1974. Circular No. A302 was revoked. May 9. The UIC revoked, with effect from May 12, the requirement imposed in July 1973 that all advance payments of Lit 1 million or more for imports and serv- ices be made w i th foreign currency borrowed f rom Italian banks. Circulars Nos. A285 and A292 were revoked. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 4. The Ministry of Foreign Trade delegated to the UIC the approval authority for the conversion of temporary imports and exports without payment from and to OECD countries into definite imports and exports. June 16. Semiannual foreign exchange ceilings were made available for business travel abroad, replacing the previous system of quarterly ceilings. June 16. The ceiling imposed in Ju ly 1974 on banks' net external liability positions (the spot and forward position in relation to nonresidents in foreign and domestic currencies) was removed. Banks remained obliged to ma in ta in balanced foreign currency positions (separately for U.S. dollars, EEC currencies, and all other conto valutario currencies). July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports f rom specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of A f r ica, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 22. The UIC issued instructions to banks to improve the reporting of noncompliance with regula- tions governing advance and deferred payments, tem- porary imports and exports, as well as current invisible and capital transactions. August 8. The ceiling on funds available for export credit insurance was raised from Lit 1.4 trillion to Lit 2.5 trillion for 1975. The new ceiling would also apply in 1976. In addition, Lit 1 trillion was made available for export contracts concluded in 1974 for which only partial insurance coverage could be obtained. August 26. The UIC allowed banks to finance export credit with lire they had deposited with the Bank of Italy under dollar swaps concluded with the UIC. September 12. The max imum interest rate charged for the refinancing of export credits was reduced from 8.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. September 18. The UIC issued new regulations gov- e rn ing domestic and foreign currency carried by travel- ers and crew members, or paid to the latter, on domestic and foreign ships. December 18. The loan of 1,159 million European un i ts of account extended by the EEC in 1974 was renewed for a fur ther year. December 23. The UIC announced a relaxation of the regulations prescribing the settlement periods for imports and exports of goods and services, with effect f rom January 2, 1976. (In March 1976, prepayments in excess of Lit 2 million for imports of goods and services had to be made with foreign currency derived f rom foreign currency f inanc ing provided by authorized banks.) December 23. The UIC announced that with effect f rom Janua ry 2, 1976 the value of import transactions exempt f rom the bank guarantee or collateral security required by Article 1 of Law No. 1126 of July 20, 1952 (as amended) would be increased to Lit 10 million. December 24. The refinancing facilities of the UIC for banks' short-term export credits, which were due to expire at the end of the year, were extended until April 30, 1976. The max imum duration of such financ- ing was increased from 90 days to 120 days from the date of export. All other conditions remained unchanged. Under these arrangements, the UIC auto- matically refinanced at 1V2 per cent interest 50 per cent of the export credits financed by banks. (On Febru- ary 26, 1976 the UIC informed banks that with imme- diate effect they were prohibited from granting financing for export credits by the use of lire deposited with Bank of Italy branches in connection with their dollar swaps with the UIC.) 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place on the basis of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the West African Monetary Union, while trans- fers within the Union are exempt. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply in finan- cial relations with (1) France (and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, except the French territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Repub- lic of the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these coun- tries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign coun- tries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, foreign inward direct investment, and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adminis- tration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. iThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhode- sia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of such banknotes is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from the People's Republic of China, Japan, and the U.S.S.R. are subject to special provisions. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., a speci- fied type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (paints, matches, and deter- gen ts ). Imports of rice are related to domestic pro- duction in such a manner that imports are made complementary to purchases of domestically produced rice. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Virtually all imports o r ig ina t ing in EEC countries other than France also are free f rom quan t i ta t ive restrictions and free of license. As a rule, nonliberalized imports from non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annually by the Ministry of Commerce. Under this program, annual global quotas are established for imports f rom such countries and spe- cial quotas for imports from countries with which Ivory Coast ma in ta ins bilateral trade agreements.2 The pro- gram also includes indicative quotas for the EEC coun- tries and a quota for Hong Kong and Eastern European countries. With minor exceptions, imports by sea or air, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, are subject to preship- 2 These include Republic of China, Denmark, Egypt, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Norway, Poland, Sweden, and Switzerland. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST ment inspection, in order to control their price, quantity, and quality. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 without indicating their purpose. Resi- dents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remain- ing in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank- notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other Franc Area countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a mem- ber of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out higher amounts. 262 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade, also when processed. The due date for payments in respect of exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of a country of the Franc Area, surrendered on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank- notes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and those other countries whose bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bqilding operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance inter- national merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. IVORY COAST the normal market rate. The repayment of loans consti- tuting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control autho- rization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 January 4. Order No. 2/MC made imports of certain confectionery subject to a volume quota. January 31. Decree No. 75-93 made imports of bicycle tires subject to quotas, unless of Upper Volta origin. March 19. Order No. 268/MC made imports of cot- ton wool, gauze, and bandages subject to prior autho- rization. March 28. Exports of green coffee and cocoa beans were exempted from certain levies. March 29. Notice No. 37 permitted residents freely to sell foreign exchange forward, including export pro- ceeds. June 11. Order No. 134/MC made imports of bakers' ovens and their parts subject to prior authorization. June 13. Many textile products, irrespective of origin, became subject to import license and to the prior issue of a visa from the Ministry of Commerce (Order No. 135 /MC). June 13. Order No. 136/MC made bicycle tires and tubes subject to volume quotas, unless of Upper Volta origin. July 1. With minor exceptions, imports by sea or air from all sources, when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, became subject to preshipment control with respect to price, quantity, and quality. Importers had to submit to the Ministry of Commerce declarations of intent to import. (Decree No. 75-422 of June 12 and Order No. 137/MC of June 28.) July 2. Order No. 5507 MC suspended imports of certain biscuits, and made those of certain other biscuits subject to prior authorization. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. July 10. Order No. 141/MC made imports of all types of rice subject to prior authorization, irrespective of origin. July 17. Order No. 142/MC prohibited imports of vinylic compound, irrespective of origin. July 21. Imports f rom EEC member countries became subject to customs duty, at the m in imum tariff rates (Ordinance No. 75-504 of July 16). August 1. Imports of meat, irrespective of origin, required a prior import authorization for sanitary rea- sons (Circular No. 39 of June 27 of the Ministry of Livestock Produc t ion). September 30. Ordinance No. 75-647 prohibited the import of used clothing. November 7. Order No. 155/MC made imports of certain types of tiles subject to volume quotas. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.900364 gram of fine gold per Jamaica Dollar. On February 20, 1973, a central rate of J$l = US$1.10 was established, corresponding at the time to J$ 1.09668 = SDR 1 or 0.810328 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. In practice, the Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, to purchases of Canadian, U.K., and U.S. banknotes, and to purchases of certain Caribbean and European banknotes (see below). It deals in other currencies only against sterling and U.S. dollars. The Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars at par, plus a commission of %e of 1 per cent on the selling side. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar (except the East Caribbean dollar and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar) are based on the Bank of Jamaica's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates against the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealing with the banks in sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers in transactions involving Jamaica dollars against Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to fix its buying and selling rates of exchange. On December 31, 1975 these rates relating to spot dealings with the com- mercial banks reflected no commission charge on pur- chases but a charge of %6 of 1 per cent on sales. The commercial banks applied a commission charge (pre- mium) of % of 1 per cent on sales of foreign exchange to customers and a commission charge (discount) of Vs of 1 per cent on purchases. For purchases equivalent to J$l,000 or more, the commission charge (discount) was waived. The Bank of Jamaica's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were US$1 = J$0.9075 and US$1 = J$0.9125, respectively. Under an arrangement with the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago and with the East Caribbean Cur- rency Authority, the Bank of Jamaica purchases bank- notes issued by these monetary authorities and repatriates them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Jamaica dollars. The Bank's purchases are made at the middle rate determined on the basis of the prevailing sterling-U.S. dollar rate; for transactions in these currencies, the commercial banks charge a com- mission of 1A of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate, buying and selling. There is a "bourse" (interbank exchange market) in which all commercial banks participate and in which only Canadian dollars and pounds sterling are traded against U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jamaica does not provide forward cover to banks. Capital transactions between nonresidents and non- bank residents are in principle channeled through an investment currency market, which, however, is inopera- tive. Transactions are subject on the buying side to a premium of 10 per cent on the Bank of Jamaica's buying rate and on the selling side to a premium of 20 per cent on the Bank of Jamaica's buying rate (plus the normal commission charged on sales of exchange). Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers and have authority to pro- vide exchange for imports valued at less than J$10,000, and for basic travel allowances and certain other pay- ments up to specified lesser amounts. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is respon- sible to the Minister of Marketing and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Jamaica has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Jamaica dollars may be held by persons who are regarded for exchange control pur- poses as normally permanently resident outside Jamaica. These accounts are further designated External Accounts or Blocked Accounts. The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents 1 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA except residents of Rhodesia, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign curren- cies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be invested in local mortgages and in Jamaica dollar securities; the income from such securities is nor- mally available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. The assets of residents emigrating to countries outside Jamaica in excess of the prescribed settling-in allowance of J$ 10,000 are restricted under Section 43 of the Exchange Control Act (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments A small number of goods may be imported freely from virtually all sources under an open general license.2 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM ).3 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Licenses for some items, however, are issued freely; these include raw materials, fuel, and certain capital goods. Imports originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating in the People's Republic of China or Cuba require individual import licenses. Cer- tain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Nutritional Holdings Limited. Payments for imports equivalent to J$ 10,000 or more are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met, and the importer presenting a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months 2 For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 3 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas are also treated as a CARICOM country. 266 prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufactured domesti- cally. Where such goods are imported, the tax is col- lected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. With the exception of payments in respect of foreign travel, bona fide current payments are not restricted. Approval is granted freely for payments for all com- mercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. A basic exchange allocation of J$500 a person for each 12-month period for foreign travel other than for busi- ness and professional reasons is made available auto- matically to residents by the authorized dealers; this allowance may be accumulated for up to two years. Additional amounts are granted in cases of hardship. Facilities for travel for business and professional reasons may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J$60 a day for up to ten days while applications for higher amounts are dealt with by the Bank of Jamaica.4 Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocations. Authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, approve payments for the fol- lowing: consular fees without limit, as well as transfers from the Ministry of External Affairs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; and up to a limit of J$100 for subscriptions to trade organizations and professional organizations, and for membership dues, registration fees, correspondence courses, examination fees, and imports of books, magazines, periodicals, and other publications. Requests for additional amounts (except for travel) or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Non-Jamaicans work- ing in Jamaica with the Government or a statutory body, under a work permit, as a rule are allowed to remit abroad only 40 per cent of their gross salary. Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not exceeding J$100. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. 4 On February 26, 1976 business firms were asked to limit their requests for foreign exchange for business travel in 1976 to 75 per cent of their actual purchases of foreign exchange in 1975; this guide- line would be applied flexibly. With effect from March 16, 1976, all applications for business travel had to be submitted to the Bank of Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$200 (f.o.b.) may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list.5 Where the value exceeds this amount the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu re, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Export- ers are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas com- mitments necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, provided this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in any amount of other banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to a local authorized dealer upon return.6 Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Residents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which are normally limited to J$100 in any 12-month period from each adult donor, to nonresidents of Jamaica. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all direct investments in Jamaica by non- residents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to repatriate at any time his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must register his investment with the Bank of Jamaica. Remittances of current items, such as profits and dividends, are permitted in full when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. 6 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, South Africa, and U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. 6 With effect from February 26, 1976, tourists were required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currencies unless they could prove that they had purchased an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. JAMAICA Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans approved by the Bank of Jamaica are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican com- panies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents of Jamaica and to nonresident- controlled companies is subject to selective credit con- trols; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica; authorized dealers may, however, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or overdrafts to non- residents of Jamaica up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Authorized dealers may also without refer- ence to the exchange control authorities make loans or overdrafts to resident companies or branches controlled by nonresidents up to J$20,OGO, provided that the bor- rower is not specifically precluded under some prior conditional permission from the exchange control authorities. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. In general, foreign nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 per cent; the transfer of capital gains made from real estate transactions by such persons is restricted on their emigration to J$l 0,000 a year. Foreign sellers of land whose funds are blocked under the regulations of January 1974 and persons whose funds are restricted under Section 43 of the Exchange Control Act can invest the blocked or restricted funds in Jamaica in stocks registered locally and in mortgages, and income therefrom can be remitted, subject to a maximum of J$50,000 annually. Foreign nonresident owners of real property in Jamaica, when selling it to residents of Jamaica, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted in ten equal installments, subject to a m in imum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previ- ous undertaking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are dealt with in the same manner, provided that the nonresident seller can satisfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the build- ing thereon. Jamaican nationals emigrating are granted a settling-in allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official market rate of exchange (up to J$20,000 on a basis of need where the emigrant is 60 years of age or over and has retired f rom w o r k ); any assets in excess of the 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA allowance are restricted for four years. On the fourth anniversary of the emigrant's departure from Jamaica, the emigrant may normally remit up to J$50,000 a family unit; in the fifth year after emigration he may remit J$25,000, and similar amounts annually there- after.7 Emigrants in possession of overseas assets at the time of emigration are entitled to remittances only when the accumulated remittance entitlements, referred to above, plus the settling-in allowance for an emigrant family unit of J$ 10,000, exceed the value of his prop- erty abroad, valued on the basis of their current value at the time of emigration; however, if the emigrant can prove that the assets held abroad by him were not transferred directly or indirectly from Jamaica, such assets are not taken into account in the calculation of the amounts released. Moreover, the amounts of per- mitted releases are increased to the extent that property owned by the emigrant in Jamaica at the time of emigra- tion was acquired from the proceeds of the emigrant's own funds brought in from outside Jamaica. These arrangements are applicable also to naturalized Jamaican citizens, and to nonnationals resident in Jamaica who are not subject to the provisions of the Work Permit Law. For income arising to emigrants from property in Jamaica or any other source in Jamaica, whether by way of salaries, commissions, fees, shares of profits, or of any other kind whatsoever, remittances are restricted to the lowest of the following limits: (1) J$50,000 per annum after tax; (2) 10 per cent per annum of the value of the property in Jamaica; or (3) actual income arising each year in Jamaica. Where the emigrant owned property abroad at the time of emigration, the amounts under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and (3) are reduced by a sum equivalent to 10 per cent of the foreign property value, such value being reduced each year by the amount of J$25,000. However, the reductions do not apply where the property owned abroad was not transferred from Jamaica or out of the proceeds of such transfer, or was transferred abroad with the permission of the authori- ties. Remittances to beneficiaries under wills or intestacies are limited to J$ 10,000 divided among them in the first instance; J$50,000 for all beneficiaries at the end of the fourth year after first approval of a distribution in cash or kind; and J$25,000 among them a year thereafter.8 Gold Two commemorative gold coins of J$20 and J$100 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the 7 On February 26, 1976 the limits on remittances to emigrants were reduced to J$10,000 a family unit on the fourth and subsequent anniver- saries of the emigrant's departure from Jamaica. The initial settling-in allowance of J$ 10,000 remained unchanged. 8 These amounts were reduced in February 1976 to J$10,000 on the fourth anniversary and J$10,000 annually thereafter. 268 monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewelry are prohibited. Changes during 1975 January 1. The ceiling of the Export Credit Financing Scheme, under which exporters could obtain credit at 7 per cent per annum, was raised from J$2 million a quarter to J$5 million a quarter. On August 28 it was raised to J$7.5 million a quarter. February 26. An import control program with an overall import target for 1975 of J$900 million was announced. The 1975 import quotas for motor vehicles were set at J$10 million for passenger cars and at J$20 million for commercial vehicles. The price of a passenger car could not exceed J$4,500. March 5. Notice No. 2928 removed Portugal and its overseas territories from the list of countries subject to import and export prohibition. On June 28, Notice No. 2935 removed the People's Republic of China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam from the list. March 25. An export levy on sugar was introduced of J$100 a long ton. March 31. A commemorative gold coin with a face value of J$100 was issued. August 28. New exchange control guidelines came into force, providing, inter alia, for the following changes: (1) Releases of proceeds from property in Jamaica owned by Jamaican emigrants were reduced from J$ 100,000 in the fourth and J$50,000 in the fifth and subsequent years after emigration to J $50,000 and J$25,000, respectively. Different provisions applied to emigrants who owned property abroad at the time of emigration and to emigrants who initially acquired the property in Jamaica from the proceeds of funds brought in from own resources outside Jamaica. (2) Remittances of income accruing to emigrants from property in Jamaica or from any other source in Jamaica, whether by way of salaries, commissions, fees, shares of profits, or of any other kind whatsoever, were restricted to the lowest of the following limits: (a) J$50,000 per annum after tax; (b) 10 per cent per annum of the value of the property in Jamaica; or (c) actual income arising each year in Jamaica. Where the emigrant owned property abroad at the time of emigration, the amounts under ( a ), ( b ), and (c) were reduced by a sum equivalent to 10 per cent of the foreign property's value, this value being reduced each year by J$25,000. (3) Remittances to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies were limited to amounts, for all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution beneficiaries together, no greater than those that the testator would have been entitled to remit were he still alive. Thus, they were reduced from J$ 100,000 in the fourth year after the first approval of a distribution to J$50,000, and from J$50,000 in the fifth and subse- quent years to J$25,000. (4) With effect from September 30, in-bond tourist shop operators were required to sell all merchandise (except locally produced liquors and tobacco products) against foreign currency only. August 28. Notice No. 2939 canceled all outstanding import licenses for specified capital goods and an- nounced that new licenses for capital equipment imports during 1975 would be issued in exceptional circum- stances only. However, holders of existing licenses could have these revalidated if the equipment was required in an industry with no unused capacity or if there was an irrevocable commitment to take delivery. August 30. Notice No. 2940 banned imports of road rollers, cranes, earth-moving equipment, and computers for 18 months. Existing licenses for these items were canceled, except where the equipment on order had already been shipped. September 5. Notice No. 2941 provided an indicative list of capital goods for which outstanding licenses had been canceled on August 28. It included various items not normally referred to as capital goods, such as tube- less tires, watches, clocks, cement, and live animals. September 27. Notice No. 2942 canceled the Septem- ber 5 list and invited importers of capital goods to con- sult the Trade Administrator's Department on the defi- nition of goods covered by the provisions of Notice No. 2939 of August 28. October 8. It was announced that for the remainder of 1975 no licenses would be issued for imports of capital goods subject to specific licensing unless the goods were to be imported in 1976, or if imported during 1975, were not paid for until 1976. Further- more, they would be issued only for ongoing construc- tion and for essential projects, and the value of capital JAMAICA goods imported during 1975 would be deducted from importers' quotas for 1976. October 8. New guidelines were introduced in re- spect of dividends payable to shareholders. For a one- year period beginning on October 8, dividends before tax were restricted to 7 per cent of net worth. October 9. The export credit insurance facilities were expanded to include a banker's export guarantee facility. October 18. Notice No. 2944 made all imports of CARICOM origin subject to specific import licensing; such imports would be charged against the normal importers' quotas. Previously, traders were free to import any amount of goods from CARICOM countries in addition to their assigned importers' quotas. Special provision would be made to permit traders normally importing only from CARICOM countries, and thus not holding current importers' quotas, to continue their normal level of importation. December 31. Notices Nos. 2946 and 2947 provided that, with the exception of 26 specified commodity groups, all imports henceforth required specific import licenses. December 31. Notice No. 2948 invited local manu- facturers to submit information on actual imports in 1975 of raw materials and intermediate goods. December 31. The system of individual importers' quotas was extended to cover virtually all consumer goods and some capital goods; raw materials and inter- mediate goods remained exempt. December 31. Notice No. 2949 announced that henceforth importers' quotas would be allocated to local traders to enable them to obtain import licenses for all goods of CARICOM origin. Importers holding quotas for imports originating in non-CARicoM countries could henceforth use these quotas to obtain licenses for im- ports originating in CARICOM countries, but not vice versa. December 31. Jamaica's Commonwealth tariff pref- erences expired. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen. A central rate of ¥ 308.00 = US$1 has been established, and Japan avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since February 14, 1973, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the yen within any announced margins. The interbank selling rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 was about ¥ 305 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a permitted underly- ing transaction. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan as the Govern- ment's agent. However, most of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward direct investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance and other competent minis- ters. (Most industries have already been liberalized, see section on Capital, below.) Outward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance in exceptional cases only. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign coun- tries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen pro- ceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions, with yen proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free 270 Yen Accounts, with interest accrued on balances in these accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized ou tward payments. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds f rom transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are limited mainly to proceeds from the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition. Balances ou ts tand ing on December 31, 1970 were per- mitted to be transferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or to be remitted abroad. Balances accrued after that date are not convertible into foreign curren- cies, although remittances are permitted each year up to 30 per cent of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of ¥ 720,000, whichever is higher. Withdrawals from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of non- residents s tay ing in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresi- dent Yen Deposit Accounts may be made freely, thus en ab l ing the ind iv idual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject either to individual licensing by the authorized banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: ( 1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 82 items, in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature; 27 of the 82 items on the "negative list" have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions while the other 55 items have been notified as falling under the national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an author- ized bank automatically upon application. Practically ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement, by MITI. (2) Under the Declaration Sys- tem, imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items subject to the Declaration System may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include cer- tain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, and raw and manufactured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for imports. When the settlement proposal is not in accordance with one of the "standard" methods (i.e., when certain advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four months after customs clearance), prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Interna- tional Trade and Industry. Payments to other countries for invisibles also require approval, but current payments are not restricted and most such payments are approved freely by foreign exchange banks without any limitation or within certain established limits. Payments for cer- tain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction, they are auto- matically approved without undue delay. Residents may purchase foreign currencies for payments in connection with travel abroad up to US$ 1,500 a person a trip, sub- ject to validation by a foreign exchange bank; applica- tions in excess of US$1,500 a person a trip require the approval of the Bank of Japan. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen or in foreign currency, before departure, the cost of transportation to and f rom his destination and for all side trips. Residents may freely and at any time make payments abroad up to US$200 a remittance, for virtually any purpose other than import payments, repayments on loans, and technical assistance payments, etc.; the cor- responding amount for current invisibles related to trade is US$1,000 for each remittance. Certain insurance and technical assistance contracts require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settle- ments which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; without such approval, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before or later than six months after receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to ¥ 30,000 in Japanese currency. Subject to verifi- cation, i.e., upon presentation of documentation showing any prior conversion of foreign currency, a nonresident may freely purchase foreign currencies up to the amount JAPAN which he brought into Japan; without verification the conversion into foreign currencies is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All exports to Iran, Iraq, and Nigeria require special authorization. All exports (except exports with- out exchange) must be registered with a foreign exchange bank ("bank certification"). Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on cer- ta in goods to control their export to specified communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., some staple foods); and restric- tions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing and con- signment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require indi- vidual licenses. Under the "standard" method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in gen- eral, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months after shipment. There are no surrender requirements for for- eign currency earnings. The conversion into yen of advance receipts in respect of exports, i.e., proceeds received before shipment, requires an individual license when they exceed the equivalent of US$500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the "standard" method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, rendering the service, etc. Contracts for services per- formed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to individual licens- ing. Receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Law Concern- ing Foreign Investment (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are, in principle, subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks for portfolio investment are auto- matically approved by the Bank of Japan. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned sur- 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN plus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. At present, the acquisition of Japanese securities by nonresidents is not restricted, although subject in the case of shares to the foreign ownership limits. The following are deemed to be the same as yen pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption after ma tur i ty of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks, interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from tech- nological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expro- priation may be repatriated freely. The remittance of the proceeds from the sale of validated stocks (shares), as well as the transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of stocks may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Proceeds from the sale of bonds, debentures, and bene- ficiary certificates normally may be deposited in Non- resident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Pro- ceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, bene- ficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen w i thdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be depos- ited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. There are no special rules pre- scribing that the yen proceeds from sales of securities by nonresidents must within any specified period be either reinvested in securities or converted into foreign cur- rency for transfer abroad. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, sub- ject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with approved procedures are permitted to remit their profits and prin- cipal abroad. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and other compe- tent ministers after deliberation (in certain important cases) by the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownership up to 100 per cent is permitted in new or existing enterprises in all but seven industries. Among these seven, foreign ownership in three industries, which 272 are 50 per cent liberalized, is to be fu l ly liberalized by May 1, 1976, from which time 100 per cent foreign ownership will be permitted in all but four industries. In three of these four industries, investment will be subject to case-by-case screening and in one, foreign ownership will be permitted automatically up to 50 per cent. The present liberalization applies both to the establishment of new firms and (provided in all cases that the firm concerned consents) to take-overs of exist- ing firms or participation in existing firms. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan, and those of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Minis- ter of Finance. The approval of the Bank is given automatically. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the mak ing of investments abroad are subject to approval, but approval generally is either automatic or freely given for outward direct investment (with the exception of certain projects which are not u rgen t ), purchases of real estate abroad, and outward portfolio investment. How- ever, the acquisition by residents of foreign short-term securities w i th maturities of one year or less is not permitted. Furthermore, for residents other than insti- tu t ional investors, there are certain restrictions on purchases of unlisted securities. In addition, foreign exchange banks and securities firms were informed in J anu a ry 1974 that the public should not be encouraged to buy foreign securities, but the request was withdrawn in 1975. Foreign borrowers are from time to time per- mitted to issue yen bonds on the Japanese capital market. Japanese emigrants may remit any amount from their assets to any country subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan also may remit to any country any amount of personal assets, subject to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Certain types of outflows of long-term capital are facilitated by a foreign currency lending system under which government institutions and foreign exchange banks are authorized to make foreign currency loans to residents for 50 per cent of their direct invest- ment operations abroad and for advance payments in respect of imports. Outward financial credits and loans are subject to licensing. The issuing of bonds abroad, including issues for conversion into yen for domestic use, also is subject to licensing; dur ing 1975 such issues were permitted liberally. Securities acquired w i th approval under the Law Concerning Foreign Investment may be imported and exported freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject to controls over their overall net position in foreign currency (spot and forward comb ined). The switching of spot foreign cur- rency into yen by foreign exchange banks is also subject to regulation; their interoffice liabilities on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are regarded as foreign currency liabilities for the application of this regulation. The inter- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution est rates on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts must not exceed those on resident-owned deposits, but otherwise are not subject to control. Deposits in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are not subject to reserve requirements. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import of gold bullion containing more than 45 per cent of gold in weight normally is permitted, provided a payments license is obtained from the Bank of Japan; the volume of gold bullion imports may, however, be restricted at the discretion of the authorities if it reaches a level that would result in a disruptive influence on international gold markets. Imports of other gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold are freely permitted, subject only to verification by a for- eign exchange bank. Travelers (resident or nonresident) are freely permitted to bring in up to one kilogram of gold bullion a person a trip and up to the equivalent of US$200 in articles of gold and gold coins. Gold bullion, gold coins, and gold articles acquired by donation or inheritance may be imported freely, subject only to veri- fication by the customs authorities. Exports of gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold by residents require licenses from the Minister of Finance; exports of gold bullion are not norma l ly permitted. Changes during 1975 January 1. Exports of iron and steel to the United States ceased to be subject to vo lun tary restraint. January 1. Exports of electronic appliances to the Benelux countries became subject to voluntary restraint. April 1. The ban on exports of naphtha was lifted. April 24. A medium-term yen loan f rom the Bank of Japan to the Asian Development Bank was announced. May 1. Inward direct investment in the real estate business was fu l ly liberalized. May 1. Inward direct investment in 12 additional industries was fu l ly liberalized. May 2. Foreign exchange banks were allowed to issue certificates of deposit in Singapore. May 6. Foreign exchange banks began to undertake fu tures transactions between yen and renm inb i. May 23. The period dur ing which the Japan Raw Silk Corporation would act as sole importer of raw silk was extended un t il May 31, 1976. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 1. Inward direct investment in retail trade opera- tions was fu l ly liberalized. This reduced to four the number of "excepted industries." June 7. The request to securities dealers and foreign exchange banks of January 7, 1974 not to encourage the public to buy foreign securities was revoked. June 13. The facilities of the Overseas Investment Insurance Scheme were extended to imports of 11 addi- JAPAN tional primary products, including corn, soybeans, coffee beans, palm oil, and beef. June 21. Foreign exchange banks were allowed to issue certificates of deposit in the United States. June 27. The Government announced that import licenses for bovine meat would be allocated with effect from July 4. (The granting of import licenses for beef and veal had been deferred on April 1, 1974.) July 5. For the first time, the establishment of a life insurance company in Japan with foreign participation on a jo int venture basis was authorized. July 9. The ban on exports of butane was lifted. July 17. The domestic capital market was reopened to foreign borrowers. The first issue of yen bonds by a foreign government since 1973 took place. A second issue by a foreign government occurred on November 4. July 22. For the first time since 1950, a foreign insur- ance company was licensed to establish a fu ll branch in Japan for the sale of non-life insurance. August 12. It was announced that agreement with the United States had been reached on guaranteed deliveries of wheat, soybeans, and feed grains over the next three years. September 1. Approval policies for payments in respect of certain invisibles were eased; the items affected included agency fees and remittances under guarantees for tenders or commodity contracts. September 9. It was announced that rice stockpiles would be bu i lt up to two million tons. September 15. In addition to the continuation of the special finance program for imports of copper ore, spe- cial financing facilities (up to ¥ 28 billion) by the Export and Import Bank of Japan were made available du r ing the current fiscal year to promote imports from developing countries of lead, zinc, bauxite, nickel, molybdenum, tungsten, and wood pulp. November 7. Imports of woven fabrics of silk were placed under a surveillance system. December 1. Inward direct investment in the manu- facturing, selling, or leasing of electric computers was fu l ly liberalized; previously, such investment was liberal- ized up to 50 per cent. The number of "restricted indus- tries" thus was reduced to seven; four of these were liberalized up to 50 per cent, but three of the four were scheduled for fu ll liberalization by May 1, 1976. December 12. An agreement w i th the EEC on trade in textile products was initialed. December 15. It was announced that foreign banks in Japan would, w i th effect from January 5, 1976, be permitted to increase the outstanding total of their con- versions of foreign currencies into yen. December 15. Export restrictions on certain strategic materials were lifted. December 19. A new agreement on trade in textiles was signed with the United States. December 24. Imports of electronic digital automatic data processing machines and of parts and accessories 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN for such machines were liberalized. The number of residual restrictions notified to the GATT was thus reduced from 29 to 27. December 25. It was announced that dur ing 1976 voluntary restraint would be exercised in respect of steel exports to the EEC. December 31. Exports of electronic appliances to Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, and exports of dry batteries and umbrellas to various EEC countries ceased to be subject to voluntary restraint. December 31. The budget for 1976-77 was approved by the Cabinet. Among other things, it provided that export credit facilities would be improved. The ceiling on the deferred payment facilities provided by the Export and Import Bank of Japan was raised, as were the ceiling on total lending by the Export and Import Bank and the ceiling on export credit insurance. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar, and Jordan avails itself of wider margins. Since February 1975, the exchange rate for the dinar has been maintained on the basis of JD 0.387 = SDR 1. On December 31, 1975, the Central Bank of Jordan's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$3.04 and US$3.02 per JD 1, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.50 and <£ stg. 1.48 per JD I.1 The buying and selling rates quoted by the commercial banks for these and other currencies must be based on the spot rates quoted by the Central Bank; as a result, no forward exchange transactions take place. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of Mo of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Relations Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, up to a permitted annual limit, for payments for educa- tional expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee com- prising representatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and the Central Bank presents from time to time suggestions and recom- mendations concerning changes in import policy to the Minister of Industry and Trade. In addition, an Eco- nomic Security Committee is empowered to amend exist- ing regulations or issue new ones concerning any aspect of Jordan's economic policies when this is considered necessary to the national interest. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Egypt must be made in pounds sterling through clearing accounts under a special bilateral payments arrangement with that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except those of perishable goods and those of Jordanian goods up to JD 5,000 per transaction to neighboring Arab countries or up to JD 500 to other countries) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Jordan has ceased 1 In addition to U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank maintains official quotations for Belgian francs, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. These accounts must be fed with approved funds; the approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks; balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency, while the interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain i tem s2 from any source, some imports from Roman ia, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless cov- ered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting countries (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring coun t r ie s ), require import licenses if their c. & f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Min- istry of Industry and Trade except for certain items 3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of Industry and Trade (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an indus- trial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea and certain other goods must obtain a specified m in imum proportion of their requirements from Indian sources. Imports shipped by sea should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are subject to a penalty of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value (7 per cent for industrial raw materials and Brazilian coffee; foodstuffs, pharmaceu- ticals, and a few other items are exemp t). The Council of Ministers may grant exemptions f rom these rules on a case-by-case basis upon special recommendations by the Ministries of Industry and Trade and Transport. Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance and Customs are required on most imports shipped 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalcoholic beverages; diesel-engined cars, trucks, and buses; and military uniforms. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, f rom Arab Common Market countries and f rom countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other ag r icu l tu ral commodities are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fats; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; petroleum products (except aviation f u e l ); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned lea ther; amusement machines; blankets; woolen rugs; dry bat- teries; shaving lotion; and toothpaste. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN through ports other than Aqaba, to ensure their impor- tation into Jordan. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer hold- ing an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of VIQ of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which normally is given for essential imports only. Most imported commodities are subject to an import duty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. With this exception, all pay- ments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to residents' dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents travel- ing abroad; expenses for education; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.4 The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted for one or more trips once a year. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted, once a year; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to non- residents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents traveling abroad make take out up to JD 300 in any combination of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon entry to the customs authorities and that had been entered in their passports by the latter. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered within six months of ship- ment. Exempt are the proceeds from perishable vege- tables and fruits, and proceeds up to JD 5,000 from exports of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries or up to JD 500 from such exports to other countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capi- tal require approval and are not normally allowed, with the following exception. The Central Bank is prepared to exam ine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permis- sion to t rans fer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from non- resident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, which took effect on October 16, 1972, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the origi- nal investment or in any other convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. After two years, repatri- ation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign currency in which the original investment was made or in any other convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. Gold The Central Bank has issued four gold coins under the Gold and Silver Coins Regulation No. 61 of 1968; these coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numis- matists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary 4 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 5 No approval is given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equiva- lent in foreign currency. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1975 January 1. The export tax on phosphates was increased from JD 6 to JD 11 a ton. February 22. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. Jordan henceforth maintained the exchange rate for the dinar on the basis of JD 0.387 = SDR 1 and continued to avail itself of wider margins. Previously, the parity for the U.S. dollar had been JD 1 = US$3.1111. JORDAN March 11. Restrictions on investment abroad by resident banks and companies were eased. Subject to case-by-case screening, the Central Bank was prepared to authorize the export of capital by commercial banks, insurance companies, and industrial or trading com- panies, for purposes only of establishing branches abroad, as well as by contractors undertaking the execution of work abroad. Profits derived from such investments and the proceeds upon liquidation had to be transferred to Jordan. Investment abroad by private individuals continued to be prohibited, except in special circumstances. July 17. Proceeds of exports to neighboring Arab countries up to JD 5,000 per transaction became exempt from surrender requirements. July 23. The exchange allocations for travel, educa- tional expenses, medical treatment, and family support for relatives living abroad were increased to JD 5,000 a year for each beneficiary (to JD 500 for travel by children under 18). 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling. A central rate of K Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Kenya avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Tanzania shillings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shillings at par; in principle, the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par.1 In transactions w i th authorized banks, the Central Bank stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U.S. dollars and to supply U.S. dollars in exchange for Kenya shil- lings, at rates based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar/SDR rate. The Central Bank deals w i th the Government and commercial banks, on the basis of the daily closing rates in New York, in deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, and, on the basis, of their U.S. dollar cross rates, in Bu rundi francs and Zambian kwacha. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies,2 except occasionally on behalf of the Government. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward in sterling and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling in outside markets. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic P l a n n i ng has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority for approving payments for imports of goods not listed in Import Schedules I-IV with an invoiced value not exceeding K Sh 4,000, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capi- tal payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer and exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for foreign exchange allocation permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies, who forwards these to the Central Bank; applications are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Commit- tee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies. Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Sup- plies before shipment. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marke t ing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restric- tions, but the export or import of Kenya banknotes is prohibited. Prescription of Currency Kenya has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Settlements with Tanzania and Uganda no rma l ly are effected in East A f r ican currency.3 Pay- ments to residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda (except Rhodesia and South A f r ica) may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Receipts f rom countries other than Tanzania, Uganda, and Rhodesia may be obtained in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. All payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittances to South A f r i ca also are prohibited, with the exception of those of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East A f r ican Commun i ty organizations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia, South Afr ica, Tanza- nia, or Uganda with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any currency (other than East A f r ican, Rhodesian, or South Afr ican currency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to resi- dents and nonresidents. Non t rans fe rab le funds of residents of countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownersh ip of residents of South Africa or Rhodesia) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and 1 All dealings in Tanzania and Uganda banknotes are suspended. 2 All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the Uganda shilling are considered fore ign currencies. 3 East A f r ican cu r rency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzan ia shillings, and Uganda shillings. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya;4 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, arid interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments Some imports f rom all sources are prohibited for rea- sons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. All imports from Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugan- dan origin. Many goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, fertilizers, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are four commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV from countries other than Tanzania and Uganda require a foreign exchange alloca- tion license issued by the Director of Trade and Sup- plies; applications must be submitted before firm orders are placed. Imports of goods on open general license do not require an exchange allocation license but must be preregistered with the Director of Trade and Supplies before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules require a specific import license from the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been obtained, for- eign exchange is granted freely for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quotas reflecting past imports for goods in Schedule II. No foreign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. From time to time, exemptions may be granted from the quotas estab- lished under Schedules II and IV and from the prohi- bitions of Schedule III. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to pro- vide exchange automatically, but not normally prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and 4 Such securities must be payable in East A f r ican currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the da te of acquisition. KENYA equipment when the value is required to be regarded as a contribution toward capital or to be accounted for on a loan basis. Most imports with a pro forma invoice value in excess of K Sh 20,000 are also subject to preshipment inspec- tion as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company acting for the Central Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports un t il this "Clean Report" has been received. The buying and conf irm ing commission with respect to imports into Kenya may not exceed 3 per cent of the value of the import. The interest rate on suppliers' credit normally is limited to 11 per cent per annum. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur- rent payments without limitation or up to established limits; amoun ts above these limits as well as other cur- rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic yea r5 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self- employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33!/3 per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories6 may continue to effect remit- tances f rom salaries as above, but those who avail them- selves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Remittances to South Afr ica, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12- month period. Any excess of net rent over the permit- ted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to ma tur i ty, af ter which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are 5 With e f fect from the academic year 1976/77, this allocation is being increased to K Sh 24,000, but authorized dealers will not be allowed to remit any funds for educational support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975/76 academic year. 8 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Terri- tories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA permitted to transfer annually up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capi- tal. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, the exchange control authorities must approve the remittance of such incomes. The basic allowance for travel outside the Sched- uled Territories by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.7 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Africa. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank- notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricul- tural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. Exports of coffee are made through the intermediary of the Coffee Marketing Board. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be col- lected within three months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.8 Exports of manufac tured goods to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are eligible for special incentives. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited, with the exception that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previ- ously taken out by themselves. The import of East African shilling notes also is prohibited. 7 Banks are not permitted, w i thout specific approval, to sell exchange in excess of K Sh 200 a day (subject to a max imum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Bu rund i, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zambia. 8 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. 280 Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Transfers to Rhodesia or South Afr ica are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings f rom salaries, persons leaving Kenya perma- nently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each fam i ly un it if they take up resi- dence in a country outside the Scheduled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, dur- ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 f rom their Blocked Accounts. All remain- ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years f rom the date of purchase. If an emigrating or repatriat- ing person's assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, the total assets must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the pro- ceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange con- trol approval and is restricted. The same is true of borrowing by residents from nonresidents. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appro- priate manne r. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account. Purchases of securi- ties outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following f rom all sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and f rom Tanzania and Uganda when originating in other countries, is subject to individual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; gold- smiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bul- lion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Imports of gold jewelry require specific import licenses as Schedule III items and no foreign exchange is allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1975 January 1. Circular No. 15/1974 reduced the period within which payments for exports to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda have to be obtained from six months to three months after shipment. January 2. Policy toward domestic lending in foreign currency was relaxed; banks were allowed to bring in foreign exchange from abroad for this purpose. January 24. The supervision over the foreign exchange receipts of tour operators, booking agents, and operators of hotels or lodges was tightened; Foreign Bookings Accounts were introduced. February 5. Applications for registration of imports under the open general license, as well as applications for exchange allocation licenses for goods subject to specific license, had to be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies; previously, both were submitted to the Central Bank. June 1. New commodity lists for Import Sched- ules I-IV came into effect. A large number of items previously on open general license or, in some cases, in Schedule IV, were added to Schedule II or Sched- ule III. The coverage of Schedule IV was reduced. The most important additions to Schedules II and III were processed food items and textiles. June 14. Import duties on larger passenger automo- biles were increased sharply. June. The import of fertilizers became the monopoly of an official agency, KEN-REN. July 1. An import duty of 10 per cent was imposed on certain capital goods and certain raw materials. KENYA August 31. With effect from January 1, 1976, the importation of medium or heavy commercial vehicles consigned from foreign ports was prohibited. Further- more, af ter June 30, 1977 the importation of all commercial and four-wheel drive vehicles would be prohibited. October 27. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The central rate was changed f rom K Sh 7.14286 = US$1 to K Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1. Kenya continued to avail itself of wider margins and the U.S. dollar continued to be the intervention currency. The exchange rates for the currencies of Tanzania and Uganda remained unchanged. The initial middle rate for the U.S. dollar was K Sh 8.16. October. Re-exports of fertilizers were prohibited. November 5. An exchange allocation for pilgrimages came in to effect of K Sh 6,000 per adult person, includ- ing the basic travel allowance. It was available only to persons who had not utilized the basic travel allowance w i th in the last two years. November 13. Certain categories of agricultural machinery, including tractors, were removed from Import Schedule IV and placed under open general license. November 27. The amount up to which authorized dealers may approve payment for single import transac- tions upon production of evidence of importation was increased from K Sh 2,000 to K Sh 4,000. December 10. Circular No. 10/1975 provided that w i th effect f rom the academic year 1976/77 authorized dealers could not remit any funds for educational sup- port to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975/76 academic year. The basic exchange allocation for study abroad would be increased from K Sh 14,000 to K Sh 24,000 for a fu ll scholastic year. December 31. The Customs Tariff (Amendment) Bill, 1975 was gazetted. The Act would be deemed to have come into operation on January 1, 1976. Tariff preferences to members of the EEC would no longer be granted and the existing three-column ta r i ff would be reduced to a single column. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been estab- lished with the Fund. The exchange rate in the exchange certificate market is maintained around W 484 per US$1. On December 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 483.40 and W 484.60, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 483 and W 485, re- spectively, per US$1. Exchange certificates valid for 30 days may be issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign ex- change earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by residents. In practice, most foreign exchange proceeds are exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates may be changed into equivalent foreign means of payment. There ,is a limited forward exchange market restricted to exporters covering their export earnings. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control. It carries out policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in large part; it regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital trans- actions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in specified foreign exchange dealings. The trade program for imports financed f rom Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are programmed separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Bank of Korea. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 282 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture f rom Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have ac- crued from remuneration for services in Korea, fares paid for travel by air or ship, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accord- ance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom ab road ). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing ex- change rate, and they may be debited for salary pay- ments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents (including Korean workers abroad) are permitted to hold demand, notice, and time deposit accounts in prescribed currencies with foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, as well as enter- prises in which foreign capital is invested, may maintain demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies with foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to oper- ate in the Masan Free Export Zone also may maintain demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zone. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating in the People's Republic of China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam and for certain imports f rom all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, or pro- hibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or pro- hibited commodities. Automatic approval items (on December 31, 1975 these were 644 out of 1,312 basic items in the Standard International Trade Classifica- tion—SITC) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and certain raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (602) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. Prohibited items (66) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for rea- sons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duction of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most types of goods imported by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of local currency at the time of applying for import licenses (or, for raw materials for export pro- duction, when the letter of credit is opened). Advance deposits are retained un t il the bill of lading is released, subject to a minimum retention period which for most goods is 90 days. Advance deposits for KFX imports range between zero per cent and 200 per cent according to the nature of the import and the commercial terms of payment (sight letter of credit (L /C), documents against accept- ance (D /A), documents against payment (D /P ), or bonded warehouse transaction (BWT) terms). The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1975 had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. There are cer- tain standard allocations for business travel. In addition, exporters are authorized to use certain exchange earn- ings for the expenses of their overseas branches. Resi- dents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$90 a day or up to US$700 as a monthly allowance for living expenses; they may purchase additional foreign exchange for each trip for extra expenses. Korean currency notes in excess of W 100,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresident for- eigners need not register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, when depart- ing, may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$300, subject to confirmation of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 without such conf irma t ion). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to certain specified countries designated by the Government are prohibited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood KOREA charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to a for- eign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Exporters are not permitted to retain their export pro- ceeds as foreign currency demand or time deposits with foreign exchange banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be ex- changed for equivalent exchange certificates. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import of Korean currency by travelers is restricted. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and divi- dends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 2,976 a gram at the end of 1975. Changes during 1975 January 1. The trade program for the first half of 1975 came into effect. On the import side, it shifted 18 items and 10 subitems from the restricted or pro- hibited lists to the automatic approval category, while 5 items and 11 subitems were shifted in the opposite direction, resulting in a net liberalization of US$16.5 million in terms of 1974 import value. The import ceil- ings on natural rubber, beef tallow, wood pulp, raw sugar, molasses, cocoa beans, and coffee beans were continued, and import quotas for 24 items were main- 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA tained at 1974 levels. For certain items whose import is linked to export performance for specified domestically produced items, the ratio of permitted imports to export performance was lowered. January 1. The flexible tariff system was extended until June 30, 1975. It was then further extended for an indefinite period. January 4. The import of specified fiber products for export processing was allowed only when used together with domestic products in the manufacturing of export goods, and provided that the import price was lower than the domestic price and there were no excess domestic supplies. January 7. The daily exchange allowance for travel abroad was increased from US$65 to US$90 for Class A travelers and from US$50 to US$70 for Class B travel- ers. The monthly living allowance for students abroad was increased from US$500 to US$700. The allowance schedule for overseas representation expenses of business firms was also revised upward. January 11. The advance deposit rate on raw mate- rials for export processing imported on a usance L/C basis or a D/A basis was reduced from 15 per cent to zero. January 24. The retention period for advance import deposits for most imports other than raw materials for export processing and items designated by the Ministry of Finance became at least 90 days. The deposit rate for imports on a D/P basis, except raw materials, was increased to 110 per cent. January 31. The Foreign Exchange Requirement Program for the fiscal year 1975 was adopted. February 6. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fish- eries announced that imports of coffee beans and cocoa beans during 1975 would be kept below 1974 levels. February 14. Advance deposits on imports of non- essential and luxury items on a D/P basis were increased to 200 per cent. February 15. With effect from March 1, the system of foreign currency deposits was revised. These could now be held by nonresidents (including Koreans employed abroad) and foreign residents as demand deposits, notice deposits, or time deposits, and could bear interest up to 2 percentage points above the corresponding rate in the Euro-dollar market; previously only time deposits could be held by foreign residents and by nonresidents. The refund of foreign currency deposits was guaran- teed by the Bank of Korea. The accounts could be opened, debited, and credited freely, and the interest thereon was exempt from taxes. A distinction was drawn between Bank Accounts, External Accounts, and Resident Accounts. February 20. The Monetary Board increased the maximum interest rates on foreign currency deposits and allowed foreign currency notice deposits to be established. 284 February 26. The Bank of Korea arranged a medium- term borrowing in the Euro-currency market, by and through the Korea Exchange Bank, for US$200 million. February 27. The export of wigs was restricted by a global quota system. February 28. Twenty export items were shifted from the automatic approval list to the restricted category. March 8. Three items were added to the list of 56 commodities classified as nonessential and therefore subject to a 200 per cent advance import deposit. March 28. Invoking its authority under the flexible tariff system, the Government reduced import duties on 275 items, mainly industrial products and raw materials for export processing, and increased those on 49 con- sumer items. April 4. The m in imum investment requirements for various types of inward direct investment were reduced; the standard m in imum requirement remained unchanged at US$200,000 of foreign participation. April 14. Twenty-nine import items and 12 subitems, corresponding to US$242 million in terms of 1974 im- ports, were transferred from automatic approval to the restricted category. April 17. Advance deposit rates for imports on usance L/C terms or on a D/A basis were raised to 40 per cent, except for raw materials for export process- ing, crude oil, and wheat. April 18. The Ministry of Finance delegated to the Bank of Korea additional powers to approve foreign exchange transactions. April 24. The Government reinstated the instruction to its agencies to restrict KFX imports for their own use. Such imports were prohibited if the commodity concerned could be produced at home. April 25. The import of machinery and instruments under SITC numbers 6 and 8 required certification that the items could not be produced domestically. (The requirement was lifted on December 22.) April 25. The import of small oceangoing vessels was banned. April 28. Restrictions on payments for operating ex- penses of overseas branches of Korean firms were eased. May 1. The exchange allocations for operational funds of Korean firms' overseas branches were increased. May 25. The control over the price of gold at public auction was eliminated. May 26. The Bank of Korea delegated the authority to approve certain foreign exchange transactions to Class A foreign banks. May 26. The ceiling for reconversion of domestic banknotes into foreign exchange by departing tourists was raised from US$200 to US$300. May 26. The controls over the export and import of domestic currency were eased. Amounts up to W 50,000 were exempted f rom approval, amounts up to W 100,000 required approval of the customs, and those over W 100,000 required approval from the Bank of Korea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 27. The requirement for qualification as a reg- istered trader (and thus to become eligible for the allo- cation of import licenses) was raised from US$500,000 to US$1 million of annual export sales. June 1. The trade plan for the second half of 1975 came into effect. On the export side, 8 items were shifted from the restricted list to the automatic approval cate- gory, while 13 items were transferred from the auto- matic approval category to the list of items subject to recommendation by a competent organization. On the import side, commodities imported by enterprises operat- ing in the export industrial estates, and commodities for use by the defense industry were added to the list of items importable regardless of any import bans, while 7 subitems with a 1974 import value of US$6.5 million were transferred to the restricted list. June 30. The advance import deposit requirements were revised. The retention period for iron ore, raw cotton, copper ore, raw sugar, phosphate ore, scrap iron, and hot oil was lowered to 60 days. For 94 major machinery items the advance deposit requirement was also eased. July 1. The classification system for resident travelers was simplified and the daily travel allowance was unified at US$90. July 1. Most of the temporary tariff reductions which on October 24, 1974 had been extended to June 30, 1975 were allowed to expire. Import duties on many other items were reduced, and those on certain luxury items were increased. July 1. A system of drawback of duties and excise taxes paid on raw materials incorporated in export goods was introduced. July 15. A defense surcharge of 2.5 per cent ad KOREA valorem was imposed on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. September 1. Eight items were added to the list of commodities importable on a short-term credit basis (on D/A or usance terms). September 6. Twenty-two raw materials could be imported under short-term cash loans (with a maturity of less than three years). The ceiling for the use of such loans was set at US$70 million for 1975. October 8. A net import liberalization of US$9.9 million was effected with the transfer to the automatic approval list of items previously in the restricted or prohibited list valued at US$14.9 million in terms of 1974 imports, and a shift from the automatic approval list to the restricted list of items equivalent in 1974 to US$5 million. November 19. The advance import deposit rate for raw materials for export production, when imported on sight or D/P terms, was lowered from 15 per cent to 10 per cent. November 28. An agreement concerning trade in textile products was signed with the EEC. December 2. The trade program for the first half of 1976 was announced. It provided for a net import liber- alization of US$49.9 million in terms of 1974 imports, with a shift of some US$67.5 million from the restricted to the automatic approval list, and one of some US$17.6 million in the opposite direction. Certain restraints on exports were to be lifted. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry was given additional powers to administer the country's trade policy. December 20. Most of the authority retained by the Bank of Korea to handle invisible and capital trans- actions was delegated to Class A foreign exchange banks. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Hate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar, corresponding to KD 1 = US$3.37778, and Kuwait avails itself of wider margins. Since March 18, 1975 the exchange rate for the Kuwaiti dinar has been maintained on the basis of its value in terms of a weighted average of currencies. The Central Bank of Kuwait quotes daily buying and selling rates for ster- ling and U.S. dollars; on December 31, 1975, these were KD 0.59492 buying, and KD 0.59566 selling, respec- tively, per £ stg. 1, and KD 0.29397 buying, and KD 0.29433 selling, respectively, per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Rho- desia, and South Afr ica, however, are prohibited. Gen- eral and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The limited con- trol over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is tra t ion of the Ministry of Communications. Prescription of Currency Kuwait has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. There are no prescription of currency requirements. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered import- ers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for ind iv idual commodities, which are also valid for one year. All imports f rom Israel, including imports of Israeli manufacture and those that contain Israeli materials or are manu fac tu red by com- panies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few items (ma in ly oxygen, certain steel pipes, alco- holic beverages, and used trucks and buses not using 286 gasoline for fuel and over ten years old) are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwa i ti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica. There are no limi- tations on the export of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fa ts, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh f ru i t s, vegetables in any fo rm, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) are prohibited in t ime of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Rhodesian dollars, or South Afr ican rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Rhodesian, or South Afr ican currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establish- ment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other countries except Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry, how- ever, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or non- manufactured, are subject to import duty at 4 per cent. Changes during 1975 February 9. The Ministry of Finance and Oil was divided into a Ministry of Finance and a Ministry of KUWAIT Oil. The Customs and Ports Administration became part of a new Ministry of Communications. March 18. The Kuwaiti dinar was unpegged from the U.S. dollar. Kuwait ceased to observe the margin of 2.25 per cent either side of parity in its daily quotations for the U.S. dollar; the exchange rates for the Kuwaiti dinar henceforth were maintained on the basis of its value in terms of a weighted average of currencies. The spread between buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar remained unchanged at Vs of 1 per cent. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar on March 18 was KD 0.28482; on March 17 it had been KD 0.28944. March 23. A Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers l if ted the ban on payments to and exchange transactions with Portugal and its overseas territories. April 6. Customs Communique No. 1/75 lifted the ban on trade with Portugal and its overseas territories. June 17. Imports of jewelry and precious metals were made subject to customs duty, at a rate of 4 per cent. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC * (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Lao Kip has been established with the Fund. On December 31, 1975, the official exchange rate was K 750 = US$1. This rate applied to a few specified imports, to government payments covered by the foreign exchange budget for official trans- actions, to a few types of private sector payments in respect of current invisibles, and to proceeds f rom invisi- bles or capital sold to the banking system. All other per- mitted exchange transactions took place at an exchange rate of K 1,200 per US$1 resulting f rom the application of an exchange tax or exchange subsidy of K 450 per US$1 to the official rate. Transactions in the unoff ic ial free market, which in the second half of 1975 was very narrow, were illegal; on December 31, 1975, the exchange rate in that market was about K 5,000 = US$1. The official exchange market was supplied mainly by the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF), which sold foreign exchange to banks at the official rate.2 Administration of Control FEOF sells and buys foreign exchange only in trans- actions with the four commercial banks and the Devel- opment Bank of Laos, which act for the account of their customers. The National Bank of Laos (the central bank) conducts foreign exchange transactions only with exporters making the obligatory surrender of export proceeds, with Lao public agencies selling their exchange receipts, and with foreign embassies and international organizations; receipts f rom these sources are used to meet the foreign exchange expenditures of the Lao Gov- ernment, including its contributions to FEOF. The approval of the Exchange Control Commission (Com- mission d'Octroi des Devises Etrangeres or CODE) in the Ministry of Finance is required for purchases of exchange by the public at the rates of K 750 = US$1 and K 1,200 = US$1. Exchange authorization for cer- tain invisibles eligible for the K 750 rate is granted, how- ever, by the National Exchange Office in the Ministry of Finance, acting on behalf of CODE. The Commission for the Coordination of Foreign Finance is empowered to modify the lists of imports eligible for official exchange. The Foreign Trade Department of the Min- istry of Economy issues export licenses and keeps an annual register of importers and exporters. 1 Since the end of 1975, the economy has been progressively adapted to a centrally planned system. The banks have been nationalized. The Lao authorities are in the process of mod i fy ing the ex is t ing t rade and payments system in accordance w i th the new economic f r am ew o r k. 2 FEOF, which received most of its resources f r om fore ign donor countries, ceased operations on March 27, 1976. 288 Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides and accepts only U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account ma in ta ined in French francs as the un it of account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be listed on the annual register of importers, for which a yearly registration fee has to be paid to the Government. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited. Financing at the official rate is permitted only for certain commodities deemed most essential (List B ); other essential imports are settled at the effec- tive exchange rate of K 1,200 per US$1, i.e., the official rate plus the exchange tax of K 450 per US$1 (List C). Imports of all other goods are effectively prohibited, since imports may not be financed in the parallel market. An official agency, the Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation, acts as sole importer for the Govern- ment. Import transactions at the official rate are subject to exchange control approval. On being notified that exchange approval will be granted, the importer must make an advance import deposit in kip at the Treasury. The advance deposit requirement is 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports from all sources. Payments for Invisibles Private sector payments for the few current invisibles eligible for the official rate are subject to exchange con- trol approval by the CODE and most are restricted. There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Gov- ernment's payments in foreign exchange dur ing the fiscal year; for such payments the National Bank makes exchange available at the official rate. Payments for all other invisibles, with the exception of freight and insur- ance on imports and exports, are effectively prohibited, since access to the parallel market is restricted. There are no regulations limiting the export of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authoriza- tion. The fu ll proceeds f rom all exports must be sur- rendered to the National Bank in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate and receive ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the exchange subsidy of K 450 per US$1. An official agency, the Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'lmpor- tation, is the sole exporter of timber and other forest products and of coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic must be surrendered at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles may be retained by the recipient. There are no regulations limiting the import of foreign or domestic banknotes by travelers. Capital Under the Investment Law of February 1970, various incentives are available to foreign investors. Capital inflow is free from exchange control regulations and the foreign exchange need not be surrendered. No official exchange is granted for outward capital transfers other than debt repayments approved by CODE. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form within the country. Any imports of gold are subject, in principle, to payment of a tax of K 42,000 a kilogram and an import duty of 3.5 per cent. Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or jur id ical persons other than the monetary authorities are not officially approved. Exports of gold coins issued under Decree No. 784/PC of June 26, 1969, however, are permitted in principle. Changes during 1975 March 26. The official exchange market was closed. It reopened on March 31. March 31. The official exchange rate was changed from K 600 to K 750 per US$1. The exchange tax applicable to sales of exchange for most imports was increased from K 240 to K 450 per US$1, and an exchange subsidy of K 450 per US$1 was applied to all export proceeds; previously, a few export commodities were eligible for an exchange subsidy of K 220 per US$1. March 31. Exchange sales at the official exchange rate were limited to a few types of current payments (List A) and a small number of import commodities (List B ). List A was unchanged but List B was reduced to imports of chemical fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, and agricul- tural tools by the Agricultural Development Organiza- tion. All commodities not appearing in List B could henceforth be imported, subject to approval by CODE, at an effective exchange rate of K 1,200 per US$1 (official rate plus exchange tax ); previously, exchange sales at the earlier tax-inclusive rate of K 840 per US$1 were restricted to 19 commodities deemed essential (List C). The old import List C was abolished. The LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC financing of any imports in the nonofficial parallel mar- ket henceforth was prohibited. March 31. Import duties on many commodities were increased and ad valorem duties on all goods except those in List B henceforth were calculated at the rate of K 1,200 per US$1. March 31. The advance import deposit requirement was made un i fo rm at 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value and was applied to all imports. Previously, the rate of deposit was 40 per cent for imports from Thailand and 30 per cent for imports from all other sources, and the require- ment was not applicable to goods financed in the paral- lel market. March 31. The full exchange proceeds from all com- modity exports became subject to surrender require- ments. The exchange had to be sold to the National Bank, which paid the subsidy of K 450 per US$1 upon surrender. Previously, the full proceeds from exports of tin and 80 per cent of proceeds from all other exports were subject to surrender. March 31. The prohibition imposed in Novem- ber 1974 on exports of timber was terminated. August 1. Sales of exchange at the official exchange rate, as well as those at the tax-inclusive rate of K 1,200 per US$1, were reduced. The fares of, and transfers to, students abroad were deleted from List A. Agricultural equipment was removed from List B, but feed concen- trates for livestock were added. A List C of imports eligible for financing at the official rate plus exchange tax (K 1,200 per US$1) was reintroduced; it contained essential items only, such as industrial raw materials, petroleum products, milk, sugar, and rice. Subsequently, CODE reviewed applications for exchange in respect of items on Lists A, B, and C in the light of the availability of foreign exchange; occasionally foreign exchange at the rate of K 1,200 was granted for certain items not in List C, such as buses. September. A state agency entrusted with the regula- tion and supervision of the timber industry and the promotion of timber exports, the Office National du Bois, started operations. October. Sales of official exchange for the expenses of nonscholarship students abroad, which previously were financed by FEOF, were suspended. December 2. Sales of official exchange for official travel and for travel by scholarship students, which previously were financed by FEOF, were suspended. Sales of official exchange for expenses abroad of stu- dents holding government scholarships, which previously were financed by the National Bank, were suspended temporarily. December. A new state agency, the Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation, started operations. It acted as sole importer for the Government and was the sole exporter of timber and other forest products and of coffee. It also took over the export activities of the Office National du Bois. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System All exchange transactions, including those in clearing dollars, take place at the free market rate, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 was Lebanese Pounds 2.42 per US$1. There also exists a "moving parity" used for the calculation of duties and taxes levied on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign cur- rency, particularly customs duties; for December 1975 the "moving parity" was LL 2.38 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some trans- actions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements1 specifying the method or chan- nel of payment may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammun i- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, olive oil, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of manufacturing plants. All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market, but a cash deposit of 15 per cent must be made in foreign currency against import letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those of Arab origin, and a stamp tax of 1.2 per cent is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (such as arms and ammuni- tion and narcotics and similar products) to any destina- tion, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Exports of certain metals and a few other items 1 Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Poland, and Romania. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. 290 and exports valued at over LL 200 of certain other items —mainly livestock, wheat and wheat products, bar- ley, rice, sugar, edible oils, dairy products, canned or frozen meat, newsprint, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held deposits denomi- nated in Lebanese pounds. They have been requested not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents unless this serves to finance foreign trade transactions. Banks' foreign currency credits to residents and non- residents are subject to deposit requirements, and their net foreign currency positions (claims and liabilities separately) are subject to l im i ta t ion. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form w i th residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely per- mitted and do not require a license but must be offi- cially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1975 January 1. The regular reserve requirement against banks' foreign currency liabilities, which had been reduced to 1 per cent in December 1974, was abolished. January 15. The size of forward exchange transac- tions without an underlying commercial transaction was limited to LL 500,000. January 15. Any increase since September 30, 1974 in bank credits in foreign currency to residents or non- residents became subject to a reserve requirement of 20 per cent; for credits to nonresidents, the requirement had to be met in the form of foreign currency. January 15. A 20 per cent reserve requirement pay- able in foreign currency was imposed on all increases since September 30, 1974 in banks' foreign currency liabilities to nonresidents, to the extent that the increase ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON was not matched by an increase in a bank's foreign currency claims on nonresidents. January 18. Banks were prohibited f rom ma in ta in ing a net foreign currency asset position in excess of twice the amount of their capital. In addition, they were not permitted to maintain a net foreign currency liability position. January 18. The request to banks of November 18, 1974 not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to non- residents was withdrawn in part; such credit could now be granted, provided that it served to finance foreign trade transactions. February 6. Import duties on automobiles and their parts, accessories, and tires were increased, as were those on refrigerators and alcoholic beverages. March 6. A law providing for the establishment of "free bank ing zones" in commercial banks was enacted. Under these arrangements, foreign currency deposits of nonresidents became exempt from withholding tax on interest and f rom reserve requirements, and they were no longer taken into account in calculating the deposit insurance fee. Accounts held in a "free banking zone" had to be segregated and were subject to banking inspection. August 7. Decree No. 10590 extended the 10 per cent import surcharge levied on certain textiles. August 15. Lebanon informed the Fund that it had subscribed to the voluntary Declaration concerning trade and other current account measures for balance of pay- ments purposes. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System Lesotho's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. The South African Reserve Bank on Decem- ber 31, 1975 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the South Afr ican Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. The Registrar of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance controls all external currency transactions. Lesotho has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area. These are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are in all material aspects similar to those of South Afr ica and Swaziland. Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted, but applications for outward trans- fers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to estab- lished limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Lesotho is a member of a customs un ion with Bo- tswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Afr ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Lesotho imports goods direct from countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Lesotho's trade licensing arrange- ments, however, are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion and are confined in practice to exports of diamonds; permits are issued by the 292 Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for finan- cial institutions are issued by the Registrar of Financial Institutions. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969 to manufac tur ing activities approved by a Pioneer Industries Board. Residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell certain Lesotho gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1975 April 17. Exchange Control Circular No. 2 provided that authorized dealers could allow temporary residents domiciled outside the Rand Monetary Area to transfer outside that Area savings up to one third of gross local monthly income or local annual taxable earned income, or, if such persons were maintaining their families out- side the Area, up to half the gross local monthly income. April 18. Circular No. 3 confirmed that dividends and profits were freely transferable to nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area. Where the remittance of profits earned or dividends declared by local subsidiaries of non -Rand Monetary Area companies involved the use of local credit facilities, applications had to be referred to the Registrar of Financial Institutions. May 23. The Exchange Control Act (Act No. 2 of 1975) was gazetted. It came into effect on July 1. The Consolidated Exchange Control Regulations (High Commissioner's Notice No. 98 of 1949) were repealed. June 20. The Minister of Finance was authorized to issue certain gold and silver coins that would be legal tender. June 27. It was announced that the South African Reserve Bank was discontinuing the practice of making small and frequent adjustments to its buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars. In fu tu re these rates would be kept constant for longer periods at a time and would only be adjusted upward or downward if considered essential in the event of any basic change in domestic or international economic circumstances. The new pol- icy would be based on a middle rate of R 1 = US$1.40 with the same total spread of ¥2 of 1 per cent as before. The Reserve Bank quoted public buying and selling rates of US$1.4035 and US$1.3965 per rand. The previous middle rate had been R 1 = US$1.47. August 29. The Exchange Control Regulations, 1975 (Legal Notice No. 36 of 1975) were gazetted. They came into force immediately. September 22. The Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from R 1 = US$1.40 to R 1 = US$1.15. The Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates were adjusted to R 1 = US$1.1529 and R 1 = US$1.1471, respectively. No change was made in the exchange rate policy introduced on June 27. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar, and the parity rate for the U.S. dollar is $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in U.S. dollars and cents. There is no exchange control and there are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses; imports of cement are not being licensed. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. In practice, meat is imported only by the Liberian Sup- ply Corporation and petroleum only by the Liberian Refining Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year 90 per cent du ty exemption on imports of raw materials and machin- ery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive is eligible for a two-year renewal if extenuating circumstances warrant it. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Finance; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1975 No significant changes took place. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Dinar. The parity for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1, and the Libyan Arab Republic avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commer- cial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were LD 0.29531 buying, and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound ster- ling the rates were LD 0.59776 buying, and LD 0.60076 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for currencies other than sterling and U.S. dollars are based on quotations in London, New York, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in for- eign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the author- ized banks. Policy relating to import and export licens- ing is determined by the Ministry of Economy. Import and export licenses generally are issued by the Ministry of Economy; for certain imports the approval of an- other Ministry (Interior, Health, or Agriculture and Agrarian R e fo rm) is required. Certain imports are con- fined to public sector companies and institutions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Im- ports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds ster- ling. All settlements with Israel, Mozambique, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the Libyan Arab Republic is permitted under the existing exchange control regula- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. 294 tions to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Legitimate earnings from employers of such nonresidents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, au- thorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank. Remittances abroad from such accounts ma in ta ined by nonresident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each mon th; for those whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made avail- able free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresi- dent laborers and technicians within the limits men- tioned. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure certain goods whose value is not deducted from the balances in their non- resident accounts; a nonresident may also export one automobile during his period of service in the Libyan Arab Republic. Funds brought into the Libyan Arab Republic by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank in the Republic. Payments re- ceived in the Libyan Arab Republic by such contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from the Libyan Arab Republic to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank af ter submission of all the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Republic up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the Libyan Arab Republic by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in the Libyan Arab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qua l ify for remit- tance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the Libyan Arab Re- public permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Import transactions are governed by Law No. 64 of 1971, which, among other things, stipulates that import and export activities for trading purposes shall be con- fined to Libyans and to Libyan companies whose capital is wholly owned by Libyan nationals. Certain imports may be made under open general license. The import of some items, including alcoholic beverages and narcotics, is prohibited. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, motor vehicles, sugar, salt, tea, rice, barley, wheat, flour, vegetable oils, tomato paste, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, and Pharmaceuticals are confined to public sector companies and institutions and may be imported only by the National Oil Corpo- ration, the National Supplies Corporation, the Tobacco General Company, or the National Company for Medi- cines. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. All imports from Israel, Mozambique, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. The Government exercises direct control over certain imports from various countries. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from an insurance company in the Libyan Arab Repub- lic is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an author- ized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. De- ferred payments (for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable cus- toms duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve ap- plications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine personal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, in- cluding family assistance and gifts. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers abroad to residents of the Libyan Arab Republic undertaking studies abroad, of foreign ex- change for maintenance, up to limits prescribed for various countries, plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remittances from nonresident accounts may be approved by authorized banks up to certain limits LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require licenses from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the Libyan Arab Republic, but are intended for immediate expenses in the Libyan Arab Republic upon return to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special cir- cumstances. Pilgrims were entitled during 1975 to a special quota of LD 400 in addition to the basic travel allowance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 1,000 a trip, subject to a maximum of LD 2,500 in any calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan dinars in the Libyan Arab Republic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for fish and for commodities which are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmone- tary gold (other than for processing ab road ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; the export or re- export of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, is also prohibited. All exports to Israel, Mozambique, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the Libyan Arab Republic may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies operat- ing in the Libyan Arab Republic are governed by Pe- troleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. However, 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of most international oil companies has been nationalized. Un- der the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic devel- opment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in new industrial ven- tures (i.e., those set up after March 20, 1970) is per- mitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees. Real estate in the Libyan Arab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, other than in exceptional circumstances specified in a law of May 24, 1960 governing this sub- ject. The net sales proceeds af ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident- owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate situated outside the Libyan Arab Republic or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the Libyan Arab Republic taking up permanent resi- dence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be submitted for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in the Libyan Arab Republic. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced f rom time to time; at the end of 1975 this price was LD 1,602 a kilogram. Provided that a license is obtained f rom the Ministry of Economy, goldsmiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Central Bank must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for processing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the Government. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1975 May 15. The ban on settlements and trade with Portugal was lifted. July 24. Imports of precious metals, footwear, in- secticides for domestic use, and canned baby food required individual licenses. August 25. Imports of various electrical domestic appliances and their parts required an individual license. September 3. Law No. 86/1975 nationalized the importation and distribution of motor vehicles. October 18. It was announced that pilgrims were entitled during 1975 to a special exchange quota of up to LD 400. October 22. A decree was issued reserving the im- portation and distribution of specified goods and the performance of specified services for government agen- cies and joint stock companies. Subsequently, these agencies and companies were specified, and the effec- tive date for the assumption of their new functions was set at January 1, 1976. December 7. The exchange allowance for business travel was increased. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Madagascar has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Central Bank and commercial banks take place at the rates of FMG 50.25 selling, and FMG 49.75 buying, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes seven other currencies.1 Its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar on December 31, 1975 were FMG 223.15 and FMG 225.40, respectively, per US$1. The authorized banks are not permitted to ma in ta in an exchange posi- tion in any foreign currency. All countries other than Madagascar itself are considered foreign countries, and financial relations w i th all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, including those for gold. Export authoriza- tions are issued either by the Foreign Trade Directorate or by other specified public agencies, mainly stabilization funds or marketing offices for agricultural products. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Central Bank only in the currencies quoted by the latter. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is Foreign Accounts in Malagasy Francs; these accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account for lack of sufficient docu- mentation, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for per- 1 These currencies are listed as Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to import licensing; the import of certain other items is prohibited or suspended until fu r ther notice. Imports of fruit juices are conditional on purchases of domestic fru it juices (jumelage). Imports are effected within the framework of an annual import program. The import program is based on the estab- lishment of global quotas that set the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. For certain goods automatic licenses are issued. The import of cer- tain items is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the Societe Nationale de Com- merce (SONACO) ; these include alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement. All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (not earlier than eight days before ship- ment when a documentary credit is opened); where documentary drafts are used, the payment can be made when the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized intermediary. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For some types of transactions the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, either up to specified l im i ts or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism equivalent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar must be surrendered. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Authorized banks may not make available foreign banknotes in excess of the equiv- alent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for amounts in excess of the basic tourist and business travel allocations, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Plan- ning. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Direc- torate of the Treasury. There are basic allocations for study expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are trans- ferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may only be 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR transferred to nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their family in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose family lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for all concerned during leave spent outside Madagas- car) ; in no event, however, may the transferab le amount exceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any rema in ing foreign banknotes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate or the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office; these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. SON AGO has a monopoly over exports of beans and live cattle. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than one month af ter arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency pro- ceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accru- ing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated and, when received in foreign currency, sur- rendered within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign cur- rency. The import of Malagasy banknotes in excess of FMG 5,000 is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance and Planning; capital receipts from foreign countries normally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- 298 tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,2 and Mala- gasy direct investments abroad,3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Planning (i.e., the Directorate of the Treasury). The total or partial liqui- dation of such investments must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and P lann ing within 20 days following each operation. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the M in is try of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Madagascar requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection w i th shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance and Planning. How- ever, loans contracted by authorized banks or credit in s t i tu t ions w i th special legal status are exempt from approval. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualifying for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participa- tion contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- 2 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fore ign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagas- car and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR factored articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and collector's coins up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surren- dered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1975 February 8. Notice No. 1020 was published contain- ing the import quotas for the first half of 1975. April 12. Notice No. 1023 was published subjecting to prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce any imports by air of parts and accessories for vehicles and motorcycles. June 16. All banks and insurance companies were nationalized. July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement; the parity between the Malagasy f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. July 24. Circular No. 18937 of the Ministry of Finance limited to FMG 300,000 the maximum amount transferable per person per month under the heading of transfers of savings from wages and salaries earned by foreign workers within the scope of the regulations in force. August 31. The nationalization of all mineral resources was announced. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Malawi Kwacha. Since June 7, 1975 the currency has been pegged to the SDR, at MK 1 = SDR 0.9487. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the U.S. dollar/ SDR rate; rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates in the London market. On December 31, 1975, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 1 = US$1.1142, and MK 1 = US$1.1086, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving nor- mal current payments is in tu rn delegated to commer- cial banks designated as authorized dealers. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and all other coun- tries except Rhodesia (the External Account Area).1 Settlements with residents of other countries in the Ster- ling Area may be made in Malawi kwacha through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhode- sia may be made in sterling or in Malawi kwacha to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Pay- ments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi kwacha from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for ster- ling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresi- 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Ma law i) are considered fore ign currencies. 300 dent Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling Area currency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by residents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be trans- ferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for pay- ments to the account holder while temporarily resident in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized pay- ments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, with individually approved transfers from Nonres ident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to autho- rized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts in Malawi, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian currency from authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts —Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian External Account. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) trans- fers to another Rhodesian External Account; end (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with autho- rized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in Malawian securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on' Blocked Account balances is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Industry to control and regulate the import, export, distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, wholesale price, and retail price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought in to operation, will require all importers and exporters to be registered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported under an open general license when or ig ina t ing in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT. Imports or ig ina t ing in the Republic of China are treated similarly but require an ind iv idual license. With respect to other countries, an import license is required for all commodities except certain items such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding MK 50 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Payments for imports f rom all countries must be made after customs entry and w i th in six months after the date of import, except with the express permission of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents ( inc lud ing the customs entry certifi- cate) and compliance with import licensing require- ments. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to MK 100 on presen- tation of an invoice or other evidence ind ica t ing that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas, except Rhodesia, may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held else- where in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. A surtax of 10 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of their origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (m i l i tary type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, pr in t ing inks, erasers, hand-operated number ing stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. MALAWI Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calen- dar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and MK 200 a year for children under 10. The annual allowance is not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance dur ing the preceding three years. These allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a tr ip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and family remit- tances. Applications for amounts exceeding the stan- dard allocations may be submitted to the exchange con- trol authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi cur- rency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in va lue are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities3 are sub- ject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no l im i ta t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. 3 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country f rom sources outside Malawi; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of divi- dends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange which accrues to them. However, residents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securi- ties) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Ster- ling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the coun try concerned. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max imum of MK 8,000 for a fam i ly. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure from Malawi, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Applications for emigrants' allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be sub- mitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresi- dents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient working capital from abroad; the permissible ratio between nonresident-controlled firms' domestic borrowing and their externally obtained funds is subject to change. Gold Residents of Malawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1975 June 9. The currency was pegged to the SDR at a rate of MK 1 = SDR 0.9487, corresponding to the rate applicable at close of business on June 6. Previously, the rate of the kwacha had been based on a weighted average of the rates for the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling. As before, rates for other currencies traded by the Reserve Bank continued to be determined by the appropriate cross rates prevailing in exchange markets abroad, ma in ly the London market. June 9. Henceforth, no foreign exchange was released to pay for imports until documentary evidence of impor- tation into the Malawian customs territory was pro- duced; payment against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange was no longer permitted. July 1. Malawi's Commonwealth tariff preferences were abolished. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Ringgit, and Malaysia avails itself of wider margins. On June 21, 1973 the authorities ceased to ma in ta in the exchange rate within announced margins, and since September 27, 1975 the ringgit has been pegged to a composite of the currencies of Malaysia's major trad ing partners. The closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the Malaysian foreign exchange market on December 31, 1975 were M$2.5870 and M$2.5875 per US$1, respectively. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government through- out Malaysia, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to commer- cial banks authorized for this purpose; no delegation has been granted for the repayment of foreign loans or the payment of interest on such loans. The au thor i ty for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jo in t ly by the Minis- try of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise.1 Prescription of Currency Malaysia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. All payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israel, Rhodesian, and South Afr ican curren- cies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa must be obtained, within the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malay- sia, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. xThe three territories of Malaysia are Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak. Labuan is a free port. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted subject only to the comple- tion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amoun ts exceeding M$ 1,000 and up to M$l million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$l million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be t rans fe r red to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israel, Rhodesian, and South Afr ican currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South Afr ican Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Ta r i f fs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not yet been fu l ly unified, although steps toward un i f ica t ion are being taken. Some internal tar iffs and other trade restrictions still exist between the terri- tories of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the na tu re and origin of the goods, spe- c if ic licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Cer- ta in other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities f rom Israel, South A f r ica, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by any one of these are prohibited. Imports in to all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from the People's Republic of China are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except those for items subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports into all parts of Malay- sia of all commodities f rom the German Democratic Republic and North Korea also require specific licenses. Imports into Peninsular Malaysia of primates from all sources, including Sabah and Sarawak, are prohibited except under specific license; imports of other live ani- mals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Thai- land, and Viet-Nam also require a specific license. Imports into Sarawak of sulfur, certain chemicals, and live sheep and goats f rom all sources, including Peninsu- lar Malaysia and Sabah, are prohibited, except under 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA specific license. Imports of motor vehicles and certain types of textiles into all parts of Malaysia are also subject to specific import licensing; however, imports of textiles into Sabah and Sarawak are allowed freely. Imports of wheat flour, bran, and most types of sugar from all sources are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions for protec- tive reasons; licenses for wheat flour and refined sugar are not being issued. Other goods subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction in Peninsular Malaysia include rolled oats, certain cotton fabrics, certain fabrics of synthetic fibers, jute, and fully assembled or completely built-up motor vehicles. Payment for permitted imports is freely allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually all imports into Malaysia ( inc lud ing Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, common salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a draw- back may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export af ter processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Labuan) are subject to a sales tax; the standard rate of tax is 5 per cent ad valorem, but certain luxury goods are subject to a rate of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made freely after exchange control requ iremen ts have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amoun ts in excess of M$ 1,000. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in fore ign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. Nonresident travel- ers are allowed to take out foreign currency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Malaysian territory. Exchange con- trol forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more.2 Proceeds from exports must be received within the time of payment specified in the commercial con- tract but subject to a max imum period of six months f rom the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified cur- rency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. 2 In the case of exports to Indonesia, in excess of M$100,000. 304 Exports of rubber and tin to South Afr ica and any terri- tory administered by South Afr ica are prohibited. All exports to Israel and Rhodesia and any territory adminis- tered by either are also prohibited. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, form ic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and licenses for these and a few other items (such as fertilizers and pig iron) are administratively denied. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," all commo- dities used in barter trade, and all exports to the Peo- ple's Republic of China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, North Korea, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and North Viet-Nam. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requ iremen ts governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in principle, simi- lar to those for export proceeds. Travelers may bring in up to M$ l ,000 in Malaysian currency notes; other- wise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No l im i ta t ions are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and take-overs) or by those issued on October 29, 1975 (regarding foreign equity participa- t ion) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of investments may be repa- tr ia ted freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control fo rms for amounts above M$ 1,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings f rom nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign curren- cies. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than gold that has been materially increased in value by skilled craftsmanship. The manufac ture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trad ing in gold coins other than the M$100 gold coin of Malaysian currency and the S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency. Resident and nonresident travelers, however, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one M$100 gold coin. In addition, each traveler is allowed to bring in f rom any country outside Malaysia one S$150 gold coin issued by the Singapore Board of Commissioners of Currency, and each traveler may take out one such coin, but only to Singapore. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licensed goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange con- trol authorities to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the M in is try of Trade and Industry. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manu fac tu r ing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial use. Imports are allo- cated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Since 1973, however, no imports have taken place. Imports are subject to a 7 per cent import duty and a 5 per cent surtax (suspended un t il Decem- ber 31, 1975), as well as a sales tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. The sale of gold by domestic producers is subject only to the sales tax, at 10 per cent ad valorem. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations; any export licenses that might be issued for gold or gold coins would require in addition the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1975 January 9. Imports into Peninsular Malaysia of cer- tain shirting materials and su i t ing materials made entirely of either cotton or synthetic fibers required a specific license. Most of the items concerned became subject to quota. January 20. Exports of sugar f rom Sabah and Sara- wak required a specific license. Licenses were not nor- mally issued. April 9. Exports of many vegetables required a spe- cific license. April 25. The Petroleum Development Act of July 30, 1974 was amended. The amendment provided that any company processing or ref in ing petroleum or marke t ing or distributing petroleum and petrochemical products in Malaysia could be required to issue management shares to PETRONAS. May 15. The Industrial Coordination Act was enacted. The Act required all m anu f a c tu r ing companies in Malaysia, including those already established, to obtain a license from the Government, which could impose conditions as it deemed appropriate. June 5. A medium-term Euro-currency loan of US$150 million to the Government of Malaysia was signed. June 16. Imports of rice vermicelli required an indi- vidual license and became subject to quota. MALAYSIA August 21. The Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) Act, 1975 amended the Central Bank of Malaysia Ordinance, 1958 and substituted the term ringgit for that of Malay- sian dollar. August 28. Imports of additional types of sugar into Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak required an individual license. September 11. Imports of certain bars and rods into Peninsular Malaysia and Penang required an individual license and became subject to quota. September 27. The Minister of Finance announced that it had no longer been desirable for the Central Bank to determine the exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar alone and to buy or sell the U.S. dollar in order to ma in ta in an exchange rate so deter- mined. Instead, the value of the ringgit would be deter- mined in terms of the currencies of those countries which are s ign if icant trad ing partners of Malaysia. October 27. The Prime Minister announced that the Government accepted the need for participation of for- eign private investment in the petroleum industry. October 28. The Minister of Trade and Industry announced certain changes in the guidelines for foreign investment in Malaysia. Only companies using imported components and producing almost entirely for export would be allowed to remain under foreign control. Com- panies already in Malaysia also would have to conform w i th the guidelines. The general aim was that foreign investment would be allowed in the proportion of 30 per cent foreign equity and 70 per cent Malaysian, of which 30 per cent was to be burntputra (indigenous Ma lay ). New import substitution projects must have 100 per cent Malaysian ownership. Industries exporting more than 80 per cent of their production and using mainly imported materials could be considered for majority foreign ownership, ranging f rom 51 to 70 per cent, but in exceptional cases 100 per cent foreign ownership might be considered. Export-oriented industries using nondepleting local raw materials must have Malaysian ownership ranging between 45 and 70 per cent; export- oriented industries using depleting local raw materials would be allowed a maximum of 30 per cent foreign ownership, although such companies might initially be allowed 35-45 per cent foreign ownership. The Minis- ter gave an assurance that the Government would not take over or nationalize foreign manufacturing companies. The statement also set out the equity conditions for existing manu fac tu r ing companies; a distinction was made between companies set up without approval, those approved before January 1, 1972, and those approved a f t er that date. November 6. Import duties were increased on a wide range of goods, including certain luxury foodstuffs, motor vehicles, refrigerators, and other consumer dur- ables. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA November 6. The import surtax was increased f rom 4 per cent to 5 per cent ad valorem. November 6. The free port status of Penang was fu r- ther reduced. Most imports into Penang became subject to customs duty and import surtax; previously, some were already subject to duty and most were subject to surtax. December 8. Malaysia arranged a medium-term credit facility for US$200 million in the Euro-currency marke t. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System No par value for the currency of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of MF = 0.01 French franc. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. With the exception of those relating to gold, Mali's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Mali itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to ex- change control. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has sole authority in ex- change control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange control is applicable only to foreign countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agree- ments. Bilateral accounts are maintained with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, Egypt, Hungary, Morocco, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam.1 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agree- ment is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of all other goods, irrespective of origin, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the convertible area (defined as comprising all other coun- tries, including the French Franc A rea ). Certain aid- financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de PImport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX or UNICOOP. The Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the import of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addition, importers may with an import license import any goods under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomi- tante) procedure. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above) and the other 1The payments arrangement with Morocco is inoperative. 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to MF 150,000 a person, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 400,000 a trip.3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers, irrespective of destination, may take out up to a max imum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 150,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered; export proceeds must normally be collected and repatriated within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports require individual licenses in order to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton, groundnuts, meat, and hides and skins is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and the Societe Malienne du Betail et des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC ); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by private firms and individuals. Under the EXIC procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports of commodities of the traditional sector except those covered by the monop- oly of state trad ing companies, for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above) and other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. 308 Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) or to coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under an Investment Code of May 23, 1969 and Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign invest- ments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for num isma t ic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the bilateral payments agreement with Czecho- slovakia, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. March 6. Ordinance No. 23/CMLN abolished the statistical tax of 2 per cent ad valorem on imports and exports. March 17. Instruction No. 6/MF-CAB re-established with minor changes the regime of import taxation of the West African Customs Union, which had been suspended since July 1, 1974. March 28. Ordinance No. 30/CMLN introduced a new tax of 3 per cent ad valorem on imports and exports. July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement; the parity between the Mali f ranc and the French f ranc remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta Pound. In December 1971 a central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per Malta pound was estab- lished, corresponding at the time to <£M 0.374412 = US$1, or £M 0.406504 = SDR 1, and Malta avails itself of wider margins. However, since March 20, 1973 the Malta pound has been pegged to a basket of cur- rencies. The Central Bank of Malta quotes daily rates for deutsche mark, Italian lire, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars based on developments in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1975 was <£ stg. 122.38 per £M 100, and its basic rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.4772 per <£M 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance and Customs; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. A large number of authorities to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cur- rent U.K. exchange control regulations Malta continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency;1 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by nonresidents, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds f rom sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bankno tes ), and with Malta banknotes mailed from outside Malta. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to resi- dents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for pay- ments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Malta pound. Authorized dealers may also freely open and maintain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign cur- rency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a nonresident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other foreign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Blocked Accounts in Malta pounds are maintained for nonresidents of Malta for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regu- lations, may not be transferred outside Malta. The principal type of funds that must be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount ( < £M 7,500) that may be transferred to the new country of residence; the remaining funds are normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in Malta are either prohibited or restricted. All imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of certain items f rom any country of origin. Imports from coun- tries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be made freely under open general license. Imports subject to state trad ing include wheat and cement. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the cus- toms entry form, are submitted to the intermediary bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles in excess of £M 50 require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks for most types of payment. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of <£M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allowance of £M 250 a trip or £M 30 a day ( for up to 30 days a t r ip ), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses abroad of <£M 2,000 a person for an academic year.2 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied that there is no illicit capital out- flow involved. 2 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or in tend to continue so living for at least three years. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA The transfer of genuine profits, dividends, and interest for approved foreign investments requires Central Bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, pro- vided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Mainte- nance remittances to beneficiaries abroad are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. Travelers may export Malta banknotes and coins up to <£M 25 for each person. Exports of foreign currencies may be made by resident travelers up to <£M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to the amount brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 80 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are sub- ject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in Malta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over receipts. Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank, and payments of a capital na ture in such currencies require prior approval. Applications for out- ward direct investment by residents of Malta and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are con- sidered on their merits. The purchase of real estate in Malta is controlled by the Immovable Property (Acqui- sition by Non-Residents) Act, 1974. This Act, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresi- dents, with the exception of certain special cases which would be mainly related to the economic development of Malta. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of for- eign investments up to the equivalent of <£M 500 a person a calendar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of securities issued outside Malta in excess of the <£M 500 limit require prior permission f rom the authorities. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta in excess of the same limit require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their 310 assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to <£M 5,000 for each f am i ly ;3 any excess amount is nor- mally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank.4 Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend outside Malta only, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 16 gold coins which are legal tender. Residents other than authorized banks and registered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than coins and jewelry, at home or abroad. Residents may freely purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins. The import of gold coins for numismatic pur- poses is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured or sem imanufac tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are permitted to import gold (bul- lion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1975 Dur ing the year, additional items were brought under specific import license. Only the principal ones are listed below. Six legal tender gold coins were issued. January 7. The Central Bank began to quote daily rates for the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the U.S. dollar. Previously, it provided daily quotations for sterling only. February 4. Most footwear became subject to specific import license. February 28. Table wines required a specific import license. March 7. Passenger automobiles required a specific import license. July 17. New regulations regarding payments between Malta and the People's Republic of China came into effect. Import payments had to be made to the suppliers, whereas previously they had to be credited to a domestic currency account at the Central Bank of Malta. October 14. Edible oils required a specific import license. 3 Increased to £M 7,500 with effect f rom February 1, 1976. 4 Reduced to three years w i th effect f rom February 1, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Mau r i tan ia has been established with the Fund. The u n it of currency is the Ouguiya, which is defined as equivalent to 0.016 gram of fine gold. Since January 22, 1974 the Central Bank of Mauritania has quoted daily buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and 16 other curren- cies 1 on the basis of variations in the relationship be- tween the U.S. dollar and selected European curren- cies. The exchange rate on December 31, 1975 was UM 45.15 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The former also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Mau r i tan ia, inward direct investment and all outward investment, the purchase abroad of domestic and foreign securities, and the solicitation of funds in Mau r i tan ia for place- ment in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the Central Bank, which in turn has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Adminis- tration, any information necessary to compile the bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce which also issues import certificates. All import licenses and import certificates require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. The National Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles and over exports of gum arabic. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may only be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic banknotes. Convertible 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, CFA francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Accounts may be debited without Central Bank approval for any payment inside or outside Mauritania. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israeli and South Afr ican origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Imports from all non-EEC countries require an import license, while imports from EEC countries (the six original member states) need an import certificate. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank, except in the case of imports "without pay- ment." Af ter the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already arrived. Advance pay- ments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain specified payments (subject to conditions laid down in circulars), to autho- rized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents traveling to any foreign country may obtain an annual exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under t en ). There are special arrangements for travel to neighboring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet (carnet de change). The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to family status. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds UM 5,000. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA surrender the foreign exchange proceeds (engagement de change). Exports to all countries require an export license and the approval (visa) of the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of cattle of Co VIM A. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due f rom nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauri- tania, and over the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. All investments abroad by residents of Mau r i tan ia require prior authorization by the Central Bank. For- eign direct investments in Mau r i tan ia 2 and Mau r i tan ian direct investments abroad,3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declara- tion during which it may request the postponement of the projects submitted to it. The fu ll or partial liquida- tion of inward or outward investment also requires declaration. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Mau r i tan ian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mau r i tan ia, must be reported to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- 2 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauri- tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. 312 ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with loans backed by a guarantee from the Mauritanian Government. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed UM 10 million for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Central Bank if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special authorization. Furthermore, such prior approval is required for the repayment of all amounts borrowed abroad prior to the publication of Decree No. 72-249 of November 27, 1972. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Domestic bank credit is restricted. The Investment Code (Law No. 71-028 of Feb- rua ry 2, 1971) provides for various benefits for private investments in Maur i tan ia. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Central Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1975 January 8. Mauritania ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. February. The nationalization of the Societe Miniere de Maur i tan ie (SOM IMA) was announced. March 12. Ordinance No. 75-077 prohibited the ex- port of livestock and meat. December 8. Import regulations were simplified and the differences in import procedures between countries inside and outside the French Franc Area were elimi- nated (Circular No. 18 /MF ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System1 The par value is 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Mauritian Rupee. The official rate for sterling is Mau Re 1 = <£ stg. 0.075, and the currency issuing authority, the Bank of Mauritius, maintains fixed rates for sterling of Mau Rs 13.31% buying, and Mau Rs 13.36% selling, per £, stg. 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mauri- tius and in other foreign currencies2 at rates based on the London market rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on December 31, 1975 were Mau Rs 13.25 buying, and Mau Rs 13.40 selling, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 6.54 buying, and Mau Rs 6.66 selling, per US$1 (for transactions in excess of US$12,000). A d ifferent effective rate results from the application of a stamp du ty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital transfers other than transfers of banking funds and to payments for gold coins and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in tu rn delegated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Mauritius has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. For prescription of currency purposes Mauri- tius distinguishes between Sterling Area countries3 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian 1With effect from January 5, 1976 the currency was repegged from sterling to the SDR. A central rate of SDR 1 = Mau Rs 7.713759 was established, and Mauritius availed itself of wider margins. The pound sterling remained the intervention currency. 2 The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius define fore ign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mau r i t ian rupee. 3 The exchange control regulations of Maur i t ius def ine the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts which may be opened by per- sons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling Area,3 may be credited with (1) authorized payments by resi- dents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers from other Ster- ling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for ( 1) payments from residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and ( 4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized pay- ments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appro- priate Sterling Area coun try has been given; (3) any transfers f rom other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian cur- rency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any pay- ments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by per- sons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Maur i t ius that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required regard- less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling Area (as defined before June 23, 1972), but most of these goods require a specific license when imported f rom non- Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or spe- cific license automatically carries with it exchange con- trol authority to make the corresponding import pay- ments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equiva- lent of <£ stg. 400 a person a year for travel to any country except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 35 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are also established limits for payments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royal- ties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or par- tially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, preci- ous and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food 314 valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A 6-12 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports, as well as an additional export levy of Mau Rs 100 a ton. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export- import companies to retain export proceeds for a rea- sonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reason- able amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area (see footnote 3) on payment of a 35.70 per cent s tamp duty (a duty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to External Account Area countries on payment of the stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp duty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country out- side the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Sterling Area country concerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for the repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital brought in on or after that date. Proceeds f rom the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 f rom their Mauritian assets when emi- grating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent s tamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are per- mitted to hold gold in the form of num isma t ic coins (including commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to tempo- rary customs surcharges. Changes during 1975 January 1. The Bank of Mauritius withdrew its redis- counting facilities for sugar export bills. January 9. A new credit agreement was signed with India, to be used for imports of Indian origin. January 31. The Imports (Deposits) Regulations, 1975 MAURITIUS (Government Notice No. 14 of 1975) introduced for imports of most commodities an advance deposit require- ment of 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value. On February 18 the operation of these regulations was suspended with retroactive effect from February 1. February 1. Certain fertilizers required specific import licenses. February 25. All corrugated iron sheets and plain iron sheets required specific import licenses; the import of certain corrugated iron sheets was prohibited. June 3. The export duty on sugar applicable to indi- viduals exporting more than 5,000 metric tons was increased f rom 10 per cent to 12 per cent. An additional export levy on sugar was introduced of Mau Rs 100 a ton. October 15. The emigration allowance was increased f rom Mau Rs 67,000 to Mau Rs 100,000 for a family unit. The daily travel allowance for business or profes- sional purposes was increased from <£ stg. 20 to £ stg. 35. December 17. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of Mau Rs 1,000 was issued. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0589330 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso. On December 31, 1975 the official rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$ 12.49 buy ing, and Mex$ 12.51 selling, per US$1. Banks may freely engage in exchange transactions between the peso and any other currency. There are limited forward exchange facilities for transactions between Mexican pesos and foreign currencies. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed on impor t- ers, exporters, or others. In accordance w i th paymen ts agreements with Hungary, I ran, Po land, and Yugo- slavia, payments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with those countries hand led through the Mexican b ank ing system may, w i th the prior autho- rization of the Bank of Mexico, be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA mu l t i la te ral clear- ing system. Similar arrangemen ts exist for paymen ts between Mexico and the Dom in ican Republic and between Mexico and Cuba. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos or Central American currencies in accordance with the reciprocal credit agreement between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All impor ts must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For most goods, irrespective of origin, impo rt licenses f rom the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses may be subject to quantitative restriction. For specified commodities, "open end" impo rt licenses (permisos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited importation du r ing a specified period of t ime, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce with the aid of committees composed of impor ters, producers, and consumers. 316 Import licenses for certain goods, including leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and automobiles and the ir spare parts, are subject to an overall annual l im i t. Imports of certain goods for which licenses f rom the M in is t ry of Indus try and Commerce are required (such as unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and television sets, and whiskey, wines, and other l iquo rs) are subject to the payment of a fee of usua l ly between 1 per cent and 6 per cent of the value of the impo rt transactions, the proceeds of which are allocated to a f u nd hand led by the Mexican Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te ( IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute a f ter screening by the Institute's Import Committee of the Pub l ic Sector (C ISP ); th is approval is not given if a reasonably compe t i t ive domestic equivalent is available at a price d i f fe ren t ial of 15-20 per cent. Virtually all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust f u nd the Federal Government has estab- lished in the Bank of Mexico.1 Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are not restricted. The con t rac t ing of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on proper ty of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is perm i t ted with Mexican companies or w i th branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance w i th Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requ i remen ts apply to the proceeds of exports. Rebates of ind irect taxes by means of a system of CEDIs (certi- ficados de devolution de impuestos) are granted on exports of certain manu fac tu red and sem imanufac tured produc ts (and of certain services), provided that at least 40 per cent of the direct cost of production is of Mexi- can or ig in and that they are on a list of products autho- rized by the M in i s t ry of F inance and Public Credit. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requ iremen ts apply to proceeds f r om invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. New fore ign investment in the capital of Mexican bank ing or insurance companies and investment funds 1 Increased to 2 per cent w i th e f fect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electric- ity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, rail- roads, and telecommunications, are reserved to govern- ment investment. Investment in a number of activities is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or cor- porations (radio and television, the public transportation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Gove rnmen t ), while new investments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Applications by foreign physical or juridical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexi- can company, or over 49 per cent of its fixed assets, require the prior authorization of the competent minis- try, after the National Foreign Investment Commission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreign physical or juridical persons must be registered within 30 days with the National Foreign Investors Registry.2 Borrowing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to approval by the Bank of Mexico. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are lim- ited to purchases of gold bars by licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers. With this exception, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. The Bank of Mexico does not buy or sell gold in transactions with private banks, individuals, or firms. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold undertaking not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations plus nor- mal marketing costs are eligible for an automatic sub- sidy of up to 100 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mexico to private banks reselling such gold to licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by the Bank of Mexico. Imports of gold, except those by the Bank of Mexico, are subject to import license. Changes during 1975 January 1. A new customs ta r i ff based on the Brussels tariff nomenclature came into effec t; it was not appli- cable to trade with LAFTA countries. Rule 14 was abolished, under which imports of machinery were granted a subsidy of 65 per cent of the import duty. The 10 per cent import surcharge levied on 2,408 items 2 Some of the investment regulations under the Law for the Promo- tion of Mexican Investments and Regu la t ing Foreign Inves tmen ts were modified in February 1976. MEXICO was also eliminated. A surtax of 1 per cent was imposed on all imports, with the exception of 356 items. January 1. Additional commodities became subject to import license. June 11. Decision No. 101-542 made a wide variety of imports subject to customs duty in the free zones of Northern Baja California and Sonora. June 12. The Secretaries of Finance and Public Credit and of Industry and Commerce announced that measures would soon be taken to restrict public sector and private sector imports and to stimulate exports. July 1. Foreign tourists were exempted from a 15 per cent tax on certain consumption expenditures. July 14. The import licensing requirements were extended to all commodities, except when of LAFTA origin, un t il December 31, 1975. For a large number of goods, no fu r ther import licenses were to be granted, in principle, for the remainder of 1975. For various other goods, licenses issued in 1975 generally would not be allowed to exceed 1974 levels. In most instances, however, 1975 licenses would be limited to 50 per cent of 1974 licenses. For a small number of items import quotas would be applied dur ing the remainder of 1975. July 15. A trade agreement was signed with the EEC. It came into force on November 1. July 24. A bilateral payments agreement was con- cluded with Iran. It came into effect on the same day. The use of the agreement accounts was not mandatory. July 31. Import licenses ceased to be required for (1) newspapers, periodicals, and other printed matter; (2) when imported by, or with the authorization of, the Bank of Mexico, unworked or semiworked gold; and (3) coins. July 31. It was announced that import licenses would continue to be required until December 31, 1977 for dairy products, synthetic and natural rubber, iron and steel and related items, and clothing and accessories. August 7. Export licenses were required for 69 addi- tional items, including Pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, and tobacco. August 75. A cooperation agreement was signed with the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance. August 28. The Presidential Decree of March 15, 1971 regarding tax rebates on exports of manufactures was modified. The system of indirect tax rebates (CEDIs) was broadened to cover goods in which at least 40 per cent of the direct cost of production was of Mexican origin (previously at least 50 per cen t). In addition, the system of CEDIs was extended to (1) activities relating to the production of containers and packaging for exports, and (2) manufactures sold in the northern border area and in the free zones. August 28. The schedule of export duties was modi- fied. The number of tar iff items exempt from export duty increased f rom 2,316 to 2,469. The duty on 131 of the 404 items still subject to tax was reduced. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO August 28. A subsidy of 75 per cent of the import du ty was granted un t il December 31 on imports of machinery to be used ma in ly in the production of exports or of capital goods. August 28. Certain tax incentives were granted to (1) import and export firms promoting the export of Mexican technology and services, and (2) Mexican maritime shipping companies. August 28. Temporary imports for export production were facilitated. The temporary importation was permit- ted of products to be used in the production of goods w i th a m in imum Mexican content of 20 per cent (previ- ously 40 per cent) in the total m anu f a c tu r ing cost. August 28. Import duties were increased on 5,845 ta r i ff items comprising all goods other than ( 1) basic and strategic raw materials, and (2) essential consumer and capital goods. This action increased the average import duty f rom 15 per cent to 20 per cent. August 29. The reciprocal credit line w i th the U.S. Federal Reserve System was doubled to US$360 m i l l ion. September 10. A large number of goods (430 tariff i tems) were exempted f rom import licensing. September. Trade and payments with Spain were suspended. October 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Cuba came in to operation. December 22. A new M in ing Law replaced that of February 5, 1961. The max imum foreign participation perm i t ted in most m in ing companies was reduced to 49 per cent (the reduction was f rom 34 per cent to 25 per cent for special concessions). December 31. The rema in ing import licensing require- ments were extended. However, w i th effect from Janu- ary 1, 1976 the number of goods exempt f rom import license was increased f rom 430 to 4,286. For the 3,535 items that remained subject to import license, the licensing requ irement was extended to June 30, 1976, December 31, 1977, or December 31, 1979, depending on the coun try of origin or the area of destination in Mexico. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco quotes daily buying and selling rates for the French franc; its rates for the franc are determined in the light of quotations for certain major currencies on the official exchange market in Paris and taking into account the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade transactions. The Bank of Morocco also quotes buying and selling rates for specified "convertible currencies,"1 based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad and the Bank of Morocco's daily quotation for the French franc. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were DH 4.1726 buying, and DH 4.1945 selling, per US$1 and those for the French franc were DH 0.93347 buy- ing, and DH 0.93627 selling, per F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (o f fse t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must pur- chase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day, at the rates communicated to them by the Bank, the bal- ances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travel- ers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transac- tions are not permitted. Foreign currency repatriated in the form of transfers to a bank or postal account by Moroccan workers abroad is eligible for a premium of 5 per cent payable on the dirham equivalent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certifi- cates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tan- gier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc- tion between the French Franc Area and the so-called area of convertibility, Morocco applies exchange control also to transactions with the former.2 For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;3 and ( 3) all other countries, the so-called area of converti- bility. Settlements with the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria and Tunisia, however, are made in dirhams, Algerian dinars, and Tunisian dinars through special accounts at the three central banks. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreement accounts established for this pur- pose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.1 Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" nego- tiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroc- can currency in the names of residents of countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports (and related invisibles) from those countries.4 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) sold to or bought f rom the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 3 Egypt, Guinea, Mali, and U.S.S.R. The agreements with Guinea and Mali are inoperative. 4 Imports from the French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for with French francs purchased f rom the Bank of Morocco. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases f rom the Bank of Morocco of the "con- vertible currencies" negotiated by it. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible D irhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. These include the proceeds f rom the sale on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan securi- ties held under foreign dossier and proceeds f rom the contractual or accelerated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to (1) coun- tries either in the area of convertibility or the French Franc Area or (2) the same country in the payments agreement group, are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for ( 1) pur- chases of specified 5l/2 per cent, seven-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are t rans fe r- able, and the bonds are freely negotiable between non- residents; and (2) personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives du r ing visits to Morocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a l im it of DH 5,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require ind iv idual approval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securi- ties; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any k ind, includ- ing purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 dur ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative of his; any such pay- ments f rom an account held by a foreign jur id ical per- son; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term securities with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commis- sions on securities; and payment of the costs of mainte- nance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capi- 320 tal Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, w i th in the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment undertaken by the non- resident or 25 per cent of the company's total capital. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Specified noncommercial transactions between Morocco and the two other countries concerned are settled through these accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Impor ts are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberal- ized. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trad ing; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need (SB items). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import comm i tment (engagement a"importation), which does not require adm in is tra t ive approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import license (autorisation d1 importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fer t i l izers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import comm i tmen t —must be domiciled (registered) w i th an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commit- ments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d i f fer or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled within 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Most imports f rom countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. 5 C.i.f. impor ts of List A goods requ ire prior exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles requ ire the approval of the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transac- tion covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings af ter tax on approved nonres ident investments in Morocco are t rans fe rab le to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav- ing their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferab le indefinitely. Some payments are subject to l im i ta t ions. A fore ign employee may t rans fer to his coun try of or ig in, subject to the in i t ial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his f am i ly lives in Morocco. The same percentages of their monthly earnings may be t rans fe r red by fore ign na t iona ls engaged in professions (except for the medical and paramedical profess ions), subject to a l im it of DH 1,000 a month.6 Subject to a monthly limit of DH 300, the same percentages of earn ings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled crafts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the m in ing sector are authorized to t rans fer between 60 and 80 per cent of their monthly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any na t iona l i ty for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bankno tes) f rom their own fore ign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel by persons other than exporters a standard allowance of the equivalent of DH 250 a day is granted, up to DH 5,000 a person a tr ip and within an annual ceiling fixed ind iv idua l ly by the Exchange Office; exporters may obtain up to DH 300 a day, up to DH 7,500 a person a trip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 per cent of the foreign exchange repa tr ia ted du r ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for busi- ness travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 834 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco; Moroccan students tak ing college or un i- 6 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, monthly trans- fers which exceed by more than DH 100 the amount t r an s f e r r ed in June 1975 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. MOROCCO versity level courses abroad are entitled to an annual ins ta l la t ion allowance equivalent to DH 1,000. For fam i ly maintenance, the Exchange Office grants a monthly allocation generally of DH 300. The export of Moroccan bankno tes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All f ru i t s, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trad ing agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an unde r tak ing to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month f rom the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial con- tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the f u n ds that represent the proceeds f rom exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency f rom abroad, it must surrender the fore ign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must sur- render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f r om current transactions, and only when they accrue in fore ign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one mon th of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the currencies so pur- chased may also include French f r a n c s ); they are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the dirham equiva- lent of any fore ign exchange repatriated in the form of t rans fe rs to a bank or postal account. The importation of Moroccan bankno tes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may br ing in freely foreign banknotes; foreign exchange brought in in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travelers also may b r ing in any amount in for- eign bankno tes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittances in respect of the assets of emigrants and transfers of gifts are not normally approved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Those for the transfer of their assets by repatriates vary with the length of their stay in Morocco, f rom DH 35,000 a fam i ly w i th fam i ly residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 250,000 a fam i ly where the period of residence has been 15 years or more. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit f rom the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code consists of six laws and several implementing decrees providing various tax concessions and other incentives. It guaran- tees the transfer of dividends distributed to nonresidents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds f rom the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become transferab le after a m in imum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit from the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds f rom Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. All other transactions in securities invo lv ing non- resident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad w i th in the frame- work of Dahir No. 1-74-385 of August 5, 1974 and the Orders issued for its implementation. Under this fac i l i ty, they may accept convertible currency funds from non- residents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, pro- vided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tur i ty period; the rate of interest paid by banks on deposits received must not exceed that received by them on the placing made for their account. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250 has been issued, which is legal tender. Resi- dents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten d ifferent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect 322 Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Gold jewelry is included in import list C. Changes during 1975 January. Notice to Importers No. 501 was published, con ta in ing the General Import Program for 1975. Its structure was essentially the same as that of the 1974 program. January 21. Imports of reinforcing rods were shifted f rom List A to List B. January 29. Imports of certain synthetic textile fibers were shifted f rom List B to List A. February 20. The exchange allocations that autho- rized banks could issue to their customers for business travel abroad were increased. Persons other than export- ers could obtain the equivalent of DH 250 a day and DH 5,000 a person a trip, w i th in an annual ceiling fixed ind iv idua l ly by the Exchange Office. Exporters could obtain up to DH 300 a day and up to DH 7,500 a person a tr ip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange they had repatriated in the previous calendar year. March 1. Imports of specified silver and its alloys, specified unwrought lead, and lead waste and scrap were sh if ted f rom List A to List B. April 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the People's Republic of China, settlements w i th that country took place in convertible currencies. The People's Republic of China was shifted f rom the paymen ts agreement group to the area of convertibility. May 6. The max imum amount of assets that foreign nationals could t rans fer abroad on final departure was increased f rom DH 100,000 a fam i ly to DH 250,000 a fam i ly. June 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the German Democratic Repub- lic, settlements with that country took place in con- vertible currencies. The German Democratic Republic was shifted f rom the payments agreement group to the area of convertibility. July 17. Decree No. 2-75-358 approved the issue by the Bank of Morocco of a commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250. The coin was legal tender; its liberating power in payments between private individuals was limited to DH 2,500. August 23. The Government borrowed US$200 mil- lion at medium term in the Euro-currency market. August. Imports of specified cheeses were shifted f rom List A to List B. October 30. Imports of certain chemicals were shifted f rom List A to List B. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Kate System The par value is 0.0808408 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee. On February 20, 1973 a central rate was established of NRs 12.7390 = SDR 1, correspond- ing at the t ime to NRs 10.56 = US$1, and Nepal avails itself of wider margins. Since October 9, 1975, how- ever, the Nepal Rastra Bank ( the central b a n k) has ma in ta ined fixed buy ing and selling rates for U.S. dol- lars of NRs 12.45 buying, and NRs 12.55 selling, per US$1. The Bank also quotes fixed rates for the Ind ian rupee, at NRs 139.00 buy ing, and NRs 139.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Daily rates are quoted for Australian dollars, Canad ian dollars, deutsche m a r k, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Different effective exchange rates arise f rom the operation of an Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Most of Nepal's fore ign exchange transac t ions are in terms of Indian rupees. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Ind ian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of repre- sentatives f rom the Nepal Ras t ra Bank and the Minis- tries of Finance, Foreign Affa irs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual fo re ign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Ind ian rupee and excluding transactions with the clearing countries. Per- mission is required f rom the M in i s t ry of Finance for all foreign payments, except paymen ts for cer ta in speci- fied invisibles that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import and export licensing is the respon- sibility of the M in is try of Indus t ry and Commerce. All exchange transactions with countries other than Ind ia must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Ras tr iya Ban i jya Bank. W i th in Nepal there are 68 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such cur- rencies other than Ind ian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. All import and export transactions with payments agreement countries, as well as all barter trade, are conducted through a state trading agency, the National Trading Ltd. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries w i th which no payments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments to, and receipts f rom, other member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union except India (Bangla- desh, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of cur- rent transactions (other than those re la t ing to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian C lear ing Un ion. Payments for imports f rom India nor- ma l ly are settled in Ind ian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such imports at the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are ob- ta ined in Ind ian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has b i la teral paymen ts agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and Poland; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. The agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Ras tra Bank permits nonresidents upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks, the balances of which may be freely t rans fe r red abroad. Ind ian nationals are allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees with Nepalese banks. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepa- lese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for t ran s fer out of the country, subject to prior perm iss ion of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts of goods except those originating in Ind ia or the Tibet region require import licenses f rom the M in is try of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetable oil, margarine, an imal fa t, beef, woolen car- pets, arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of August 13, 1971, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Ind ian goods may in principle be imported freely (a l though some are subject to temporary import licens- ing in order to prevent their re-exportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in Ind ia ), and re imbursement of tax is made by the Government of Ind ia to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of commodities subject to excise du ty in India. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports f rom countries other than India are considered on their merits; any application must, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget.1 1 Import licenses are not normally issued to the private sector except against exporters' exchange en t i t lemen ts, unless the goods involved are raw materials and machinery to be imported by industrial firms for th e ir own use. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); the entitlements are transferable and may be used by other holders. Many imports payable in convertible currencies and most government imports are effected through state trad ing agencies, mainly the National Trading Ltd. and the Agricultural Input Corporation. All imports settled through the banking system must be made on a letter of credit basis; only imports f rom India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than Ind ia for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students s tudy ing at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisi- bles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Ind ian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresi- dents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. There is also a tem- porary prohibition on exports of oilseeds and edible oils. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-exports to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited.2 All other goods, except rice, may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations require export licenses. The Jute Development and Trading Corporation effects certain exports of raw ju te but it does not have a monopoly over such exports. Eight regional Rice Export Corporations have a monopoly over exports of rice. 2 Under the Trade and Transit Treaty with India, national origin for manu fac tu red products is defined in terms of the import content of the ex-factory value. 324 The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro- portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. Entitlements are negotiable. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade (i.e., the National Trading Ltd. when selling to countries with which Nepal maintains payments agreements) are granted entitle- ments corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earnings; in principle, 40 per cent of these earnings may be used for imports of their choice f rom the partner country concerned, while the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the part- ner country concerned. For virtually all exports to convertible currency coun- tries, exchange entitlements are granted at ratios of 45 per cent or 60 per cent. At least 25 per cent of the entitlement must be used to purchase goods on a list of development goods, up to 50 per cent may be used to purchase specified essential goods, while up to 25 per cent may be spent on any type of goods. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institu- tion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Industrial Enterprise Act, 1974 provides certain incentives for foreign investment in Nepal. Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investors who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. No import licenses for gold are issued under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Imports of gold f rom any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 10 per cent. Changes during 1975 April 3. It was agreed with India that the latter would apply specified ceilings on exports to Nepal during 1975/76 of iron and steel products, cement, and galvanized iron pipes. April 17. The Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme was simplified. The number of entitlement ratios was reduced f rom nine ( rang ing f rom 20 per cent for raw jute to 90 per cent for stainless steel products) to three (60 per cent, 75 per cent, and 90 per cen t ). There was no change in the lists of eligible imports or exports, with the exception that exports of raw ju te formally ceased to be eligible under the scheme. May 21. An agreement with India was signed under which that country provided a revolving stand-by credit o f. 100 million Indian rupees for a period of six months, NEPAL renewable for another six months. A previous one-year stand-by credit for 50 million Ind ian rupees had expired in February. June 13. Imports of woolen carpets were prohibited. July 16. Import duties were raised on certain textiles, hosiery items, ready-made garments, cosmetics, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and certain consumer dura- bles; duties on salt, sugar, charcoal, and coke were reduced. October 9. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed f rom NRs 10.56 to NRs 12.50 with fixed official buy ing and selling rates of NRs 12.45 and NRs 12.55 per US$1. The exchange rate for the Indian rupee remained unchanged. Exchange rates for other currencies would be determined daily on the basis of U.S. dollar rates in international markets. November 1. The Asian Clearing Union, of which Nepal is a member, began operations. At the option of the payor or payee, payments and receipts for current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) to and from Bangla- desh, I ran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka could be settled in Asian mone tary un i ts, one un it being equivalent to SDR 1. Nepal participated in these arrangements on November 1, except in respect of settlements with India. December 7. The number of entitlement ratios under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme was fur- ther reduced to two, 45 per cent and 60 per cent. There was no change in the lists of eligible imports or exports, with the exception that raw ju te again became eligible under the scheme (with an entitlement of 45 per cen t). December 9. The ban on exports of raw jute by the private sector was l if ted. December 23. A trade agreement was signed with Egypt. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder. On September 17, 1973, the Netherlands established a central rate of f. 3.35507 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.264874 gram of fine gold per Netherlands guilder. The Netherlands avails itself of wider margins. A max imum margin of 21A per cent is maintained for exchange rates in the official market between the Netherlands guilder and the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona; margins of 11/2 per cent either side of the cross parity are observed for the Belgian franc and, by implication, the Lux- embourg f ranc (BF /Lux F 100 = f. 6.89531). No announced margins are maintained for other currencies.1 The authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were f. 2.68725 and f. 2.68975, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and fo rwa rd, against convertible currencies, including guild- ers on Convertible Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other resi- dents including authorized banks, and they may con- clude forward transactions for any period with author- ized banks. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are per- mitted to hold accounts (norma l ly demand deposits only) in their own names with banks abroad; overdrafts on these accounts are not allowed. The Kingdom of the Netherlands fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any third countries with which pay- ments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import- 1 The currencies quoted in the Ams terdam ma rket include Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 326 Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the CDIU.2 All commer- cial banks of any importance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of gen- eral and special licenses granted by the licensing authori- ties. For all payments to, or receipts f rom, nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000, nonbank residents have to indicate, by subm i t t ing an exchange control form, the nature of the unde r ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held w i th an authorized bank in the Nether- lands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. There are special regulations, how- ever, for payments in respect of certain direct imports f rom Egypt.3 All payments and credits, whether direct or indirect, f rom the Netherlands to Rhodesia are pro- hibited unless a license is granted by the Netherlands Bank. Since there are no bilateral payments agreements, all foreign countries are included in the "convertible guilder area." Paymen ts to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guild- ers to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts f r om countries in the convertible guilder area may be obtained in any convertible currency or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amoun ts received are deposited with an authorized bank or held in a permitted foreign account. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Nether- lands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary with an author- ized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The principal nonresident guilder accounts are Con- vertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with trans- 2 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, w i th in the EEC, of scrap. Transit trade (me rchan t ing) involving Rhodesia is prohibited. : {F i f ty per cent of these payments are used to settle Netherlands claims ou ts tand ing und er the indemn i ty agreement with Egypt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fers from other Convertible Guilder Accounts, with per- mitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances may be transferred to any other nonresident account. However, Convertible Guilder Accounts may not be debited for the purchase of Netherlands treasury paper or guilder bank acceptances; they may not be credited with interest on guilder demand deposits, and, with minor exemptions for physical persons, no guilder time or savings deposits may be established.4 If held by residents of Rhodesia, Convertible Guilder Accounts may not be debited or credited w i thout special licenses, which are granted only for the exceptional cases referred to in the relevant UN Resolution.5 Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. Virtually all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly from the agricultural and textile sectors, when not of EEC origin. Except for imports f rom Rhodesia, prac- tically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are forma l ly liberalized. Commodities corresponding to some 19 tariff headings or subheadings are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previ- ous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products, some of which are subject to variable import levies. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries (i.e., countries that are neither members of, nor associated with, the EEC) are suspended. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodi- ties,6 but they require prior approval from the Nether- 4 With effect from January 1, 1976 the prohibitions on the crediting of interest and on the establishment of time and savings deposits were revoked. 5 With effect from January 6, 1976, accounts held by Rhodesians were separated into R Accounts (for payments within the Netherlands, which were freely perm i t ted) and Special Accounts ( th rough which external payments had to be made, subject to special license). 6 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. NETHERLANDS lands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those traditional in the trade concerned; such permis- sion is not normally granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resident traveling abroad may in addition have any fur- ther amoun ts remitted to him through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, divi- dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate non- resident account. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by resi- dent travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by d raw ing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds V ir tua l ly all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic char- acter, and for some agricultural products, scrap of iron and steel, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities,6 but they require prior permission from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery where such advance payments are not tradi- tional in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained, however, to hold a bank account abroad, to which export proceeds may be credited and import payments debited; in most cases, balances in excess of a stipulated maximum amount must be transferred peri- odically to the Netherlands. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected through an authorized bank but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained on application to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds f rom invisibles may be credited. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlim- ited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign bank- notes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an author- ized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. Capital Most external capital transactions by nonbank resi- dents, whether involving foreign or domestic capital, require a specific license f rom the Netherlands Bank. The main transactions permitted by general licenses are (1) purchases and sales (except issues) of officially listed stocks and bonds, (2) loans granted or received that do not exceed f. 100,000, provided that the resident does not lend or borrow more than f. 100,000 a year to or f rom the same nonresident, and (3) suppliers' and customers' credits granted or received, subject to certain limitations (see sections on Imports and Import Pay- ments and Exports and Export Proceeds, above). At present, borrowing abroad by nonbank residents is restricted for reasons of monetary, credit, or exchange rate policy. In general, the inward transfer of foreign capital (other than for portfolio investment or the pur- chase of real estate, see below) is permitted only if the capital constitutes a direct investment. In addition to foreign participation in the capital of newly founded or existing companies, direct investment is considered to include financial loans with a fixed term of at least five years f rom the foreign parent company. Under certain conditions, loans from other affiliated fore ign companies (i.e., sister companies or subsidiaries) are being licensed. Other financial borrowing —whether by way of issuing bonds and notes abroad or by way of borrowing f rom foreign banks —is, in principle, not allowed unless the proceeds are kept abroad and used for investments abroad (which are considered to include purchases of ships and a i rc ra f t ). However, companies working on the Netherlands' part of the Continental Shelf, whether foreign owned or resident owned, are allowed to take up foreign bank loans (with a fixed term of at least five years) up to two thirds of their financing requirements. Resident units of international companies are permitted upon request to maintain current accounts with their head offices or subsidiaries abroad, mainly for the stipu- lated purpose of intercompany commercial credit, which is subject to the same rules as suppliers' and customers' credits. Short-term foreign bank credit for the financing of imports is licensed (when there is no domestic credit restriction in force) if it is directly connected with a particular import transaction; for long-term financing, importers are referred to the domestic credit market. Sales to nonresidents, including central banks, of Nether- lands treasury paper and bank acceptances denominated in guilders are prohibited. 328 Most lending by nonbank residents to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is liberally per- mitted on application. Requested public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are scheduled, and if necessary limited, by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the debt certificate sector of the capital mar- ket (the market for onderhandse leningen), nonresi- dents are allowed to take up loans from institutional investors. Nonbank residents are not normally allowed to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short- term negotiable instruments. Outward direct investment by residents is authorized on application. The inward or outward transfer of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments is free under general license. Repayment of licensed loans may be made or received freely, provided that any relevant stipulations in the license are complied with. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are gov- erned by the rules applicable to direct investment and require a special license. Residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fixed-interest securities (such as notes) on the Euro-market if issued by nonresidents. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad only if the proceeds are not brought into the Nether- lands (see above). The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents (except Rhodesians) are transferab le in any currency, irrespective of the seller's coun try of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; for the exportation of listed guilder bonds, residents need a license, which is granted upon applica- tion. Domestic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Mortgage loans between residents and nonresidents in connection with these real estate transactions are mostly free under general license or licensed on application. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.7 Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents 7 Charitable g i f ts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. The curtailment of external borrowing is also applied to the authorized banks. Any net foreign indebtedness on their part is restricted by the "five million regula- tion," which prescribes that the total of each bank's spot foreign liabilities (regardless of denomination or te rm) must not at any time exceed its total spot foreign assets by more than f. 5 million. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank twice a month the totals of their spot assets and liabilities, broken down into guilders and all foreign currencies combined. In addi- tion, banks must maintain a balanced total position (i.e., spot plus forward position) in each foreign cur- rency. They are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresidents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents are forwarded to the Netherlands Bank. Banks are free, under general licenses, in their lending to foreign banks and, for maturities up to one year, to foreign nonbanks. Longer-term lending is usually permitted on request. Up to December 31, 1975, banks were prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, from keeping guilder time deposits on their books in the names of nonresidents (w i th minor exemp- tions for physical persons), and from borrowing guilders abroad (see footnote 4). Otherwise, their freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad was not restricted, provided the limit set by the "five million regulation" was observed. All capital transfers in excess of f. 3,000 by nonbank residents, whether permitted under general license or specific license, must be notified to the Balance of Pay- ments Department of the Netherlands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or received for peri- ods in excess of one year; prepayments exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or by the resident parties concerned (if transactions take place through a foreign bank account). Authorized banks must report their own investments and loans; the resulting totals of foreign exchange dealings and deposit transactions are reported periodically. Gold Certain prewar gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. The Netherlands Bank engages in gold trans- actions only with monetary authorities and international financial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any gov- ernment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and other residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold ( f ine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held NETHERLANDS abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the for- eign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value- added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 16 per cent; sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 1. Banks were permitted to pay interest on guilder demand accounts held by nonresident banks, where these accounts served to provide required cover for documentary credits. January 2. The amount of payments to, or receipts f rom, nonresidents for which nonbank residents have to submit an exchange control fo rm was increased from f. 1,000 to f. 3,000. January 20. The coverage of the export financing arrangement between the Netherlands Bank and the authorized banks for credits with a maturity of at least five years was increased f rom f. 800 million to f. 1 bil- lion. On May 15 the ceiling was raised to f. 1,250 million and on September 1 to f. 1.5 billion. On Decem- ber 30, the Netherlands Bank informed the banks that f rom Janua ry 2, 1976, total commitments would be allowed to exceed the ceiling by 45 per cent, rather than the previous 25 per cent; on April 1, 1976 the permitted excess would rise to 65 per cent, and on September 1, 1976 to 80 per cent. April 24. In view of the substantial private place- ments of Euro-guilder notes in the first four months of 1975, the ceiling for the year as a whole was raised by 50 per cent to f. 1,350 million. The number of place- ments, which had been at a rate of one a week during 1974 and the early months of 1975, was restricted to one a month. May 10 For purposes of surveillance only, import licensing requirements were introduced for specified garments ( tar iff headings 60.04, 60.05, 61.01, and 61.02). No license was required, however, when the goods originated in, or were consigned from, Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, or Luxembourg. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS June 4. The "central financing requirement" for local authorities was terminated, which had prevented their direct access to the domestic capital market. The Netherlands Bank immediately relaxed the restriction on guilder bond issues by nonresidents; since May 1963 such foreign issues had been restricted mainly to the Netherlands Antilles and international institutions such as the European Investment Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European Coal and Steel Com- munity, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. July 1. Import licenses were required for additional textile products (virtually all items under tariff headings 51.04, 55.08, 56.05, 56.07, 60.02, 60.03, 61.04, and 62.02). No license was required, however, when the goods originated in, or were consigned from, any mem- ber state of the EEC. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP countries). July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; accordingly, the Netherlands again observed maximum margins of 2l/4 per cent for the French franc. August 6. For the first time, foreign banks acted as co-underwriters for a domestic bond issue; on Octo- ber 31 they did so for the first time in connection with a foreign guilder bond issue on the domestic market. December 24. It was announced that the prohibition on the payment of interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits, as well as the prohibition on the establishment of guilder time and savings deposits in the names of nonresidents, would be withdrawn with effect from January 1, 1976. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder.1 The gold content of the currency has been established at 0.411543 gram of fine gold. The central rate is Ant. f. 1.7900 per US$1, and the Netherlands Antilles avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.79 buying, and Ant. f. 1.81 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of %o of 1 per cent on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.8245 per US$1.2 The official buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at interbank rates. It does not normally deal with the public. Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances.3 Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Depart- ment of Economic Affairs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The central bank may grant an exemption from the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents and are not being held in favor of, or on behalf of, or for the account of, third parties who are residents; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until fur ther notice or until revocation by the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including for- eign investment fund s, etc., with nonresident status) are 1 In the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maarten, the Nether- lands Antilles guilder and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. 2 Foreign exchange purchased by resident companies with nonresi- dent status for exchange control purposes is exempt from the ex- change tax. 3 All currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are con- sidered foreign currencies. permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Nether- lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not without central bank approval exceed Ant. f. 10,000. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for public policy reasons. Imports into the islands of Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao of a number of commodities, including edible oils and certain domestic appliances, are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic Affairs, while commercial imports of passenger automobiles more than four years old are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with nonresident status normally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required ma in ly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of Ant. f. 180 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 5,000 each or in excess of Ant. f. 25,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresi- dent status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must in prin- ciple be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coins, since the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travelers may bring with them checks, travelers checks, or banknotes in foreign currency in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 200 in Nether- lands Antilles banknotes. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies primar- ily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the com- pany concerned exemption f rom exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies, patent holding com- panies, shipping companies, and insurance companies. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts between residents and foreign insurance com- panies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed free ly up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, depend- ing on the foreign exchange position, but outward trans- fers of capital by life insurance companies are not restricted. Investment by residents in real estate situ- ated abroad requires a license. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally pay- able in the currency of a country other than the Nether- lands Antilles) is freely allowed by a general permission; purchases of mutual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad f rom nonresidents ( inc lud ing residents with nonresident s ta tus), or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or rede- posit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons and banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Nether- lands Antilles guilders. Local borrowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (including resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold* Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for num isma t ic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require 4 Early in 1976 a legal tender gold coin w i th a face value of An t. f. 200 was issued. 332 licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- tr ial users. Changes during 1975 April 1. Exchange Control Notice 75/1 of the same date came into effect. It liberalized residents' purchases of foreign securities. It contained a general permission allowing residents to acquire, dispose of, borrow against, and sell or donate foreign securities, provided that these are listed on a stock exchange, that they have been or will be deposited abroad in the name of an authorized bank, and that payment at the current stock exchange price is made or received through an authorized bank. All other capital transactions required a prior individual license; such licenses normally were granted on applica- tion, provided the transaction was considered to be in the interest of the Netherlands Antilles. April 1. Exchange Control Notice 75/2 of the same date came in to effect. It contained a general permission allowing residents (1) to enter into contracts with nonresidents f rom which receipts in respect of current transactions were to accrue; and (2) to receive the corresponding payments through an authorized bank. The Notice also defined current payments for this pur- pose; they included charitable donations and payments relating to l i fe insurance contracts. Licenses for current transactions not covered by this Notice were granted on application. June 1. In Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao imports of edible oils became subject to license. Licenses would be limited in 1975 to 110 per cent of the volume imported by the applicant in 1974. June 16. Exchange Control Notice 75/3 of June 13 came into effect. It contained a general permission allowing residents (1) to enter into contracts with nonresidents from which payments obligations for the resident party would result up to the equivalent of Ant. f. 5,000 per payment, subject to a max imum of An t. f. 25,000 a resident a year; and (2) to make the corresponding payments through an authorized bank. The Notice also defined current transactions for this purpose; the definition was narrower than that in Notice 75 /2 but it included charitable donations and payments relating to life insurance contracts. Licenses for current transactions not covered by the new Notice were granted on application. July 1. Exchange Control Notice 75/4 contained a general permission allowing resident physical persons to hold a foreign currency account abroad, provided that the balance did not exceed the equivalent of Ant. f. 10,000, that funds remitted for credit from the Netherlands Antilles did not exceed Ant. f. 5,000 a quarter, and that the account was used exclusively for private expenditures. Such accounts could not be over- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES drawn and remittances had to be effected through an authorized bank. Licenses to exceed the limits men- tioned were granted on application. August 11. In Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao an import surcharge of 10, 16, or 20 per cent ad valorem was imposed on a small number of commodities, mostly domestic appliances and passenger automobiles valued at Ant. f. 8,000 or more. The surcharge brought the import duty on these goods up to 30 per cent, except for nonalcoholic beverages; these became subject to a specific surcharge. With effect from August 25 the sur- charge was extended to a few additional commodities. August 11. In Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao commer- cial imports of passenger automobiles more than four years old were prohibited. September 22. Exchange Control Notice 75/5 con- firmed that the daily official exchange rate quotations were intended exclusively for the foreign exchange transactions of the Netherlands Antilles; they were mandatory only where transactions were being executed by order of, or in favor of, residents, and/or in case of a conversion involving Netherlands Antilles currency. October 1. In Aruba and Curasao imports of certain basic foodstuffs were centralized. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar, corresponding to $NZ 0.892857 = SDR 1, and New Zealand avails itself of wider margins. Since July 9, 1973 no announced margins have been observed. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand adjusts the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar daily so as to maintain the effective relationship between the New Zealand dollar and the currencies of the main trading partners as at August 10, 1975. Except for the Aus- tralian dollar and the pound sterling, the rates for spot transactions in currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the pound sterling is derived by crossing the U.S./London rate quoted in New York with the New Zealand/U.S. rate. The outer limits for the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1975 were US$1.0437 and US$1.0387, respec- tively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts for up to 6 months to cover import transactions and for up to 12 months to cover export transactions. Forward trans- actions in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling take place at rates of exchange determined daily by the Reserve Bank and based on the closing buy ing and sell- ing forward quotations of the previous day in London. Forward exchange contracts written in U.S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted in the case of contracts covering imports with a loading of US$0.0050 a month on the spot rate. The Reserve Bank provides a fac i l i ty whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New York foreign exchange markets, against sterling or U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discre- tionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission ad- ministers the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. Prescription of Currency New Zealand has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- 334 tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may generally be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from the accounts in New Zealand currency held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia also is a generally acceptable form of pay- ment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other coun- tries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions w i th other countries, but they may only be funded f rom overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments 2 Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about 70 per cent of all private imports are exempt f rom licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1975- June 30, 1976 are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubr ica t ing oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te, many textiles, specified spor t ing goods, tires, and printed books which may be imported w i thout license. In addition, certain imports of Aus tra l ian origin are exempt f rom licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.3 A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to qua l i fy ing licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applica- tions for fu r ther licenses are considered individually. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of importation for certain regularly required goods that correspond to only part of an item code. Imports of completely knocked-down automo- biles are subject to special arrangements. In order to assure continuity of imports of specific items (mainly raw materials and consumer goods) in the 1974/75 program, the Government undertook that over a three- year period importers would receive licenses at least 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 On February 2, 1976, the import of a selected list of goods, mainly consumer goods and representing about 7 per cent of imports, became subject to a deposit of 33Vs per cent of the customs value. 3 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on Janua ry 1, 1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equal in value to the basic allocation for 1974/75; existing commitments are honored but the scheme will be allowed to lapse at the end of the initial three-year period. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion, except Rhodesia. Imports from Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amoun t, any item or combina- tion of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Im- port Licensing Schedule may be issued in special cir- cumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; g i f ts, passengers' baggage, replacement of faulty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange in an appropriate currency available for pay- ments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of ju s t i fy ing documents. Payments be- yond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by ju s t i fy ing documents. Banks are authorized to sell foreign ex- change for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a mon th or part thereof, with a max imum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be re- ferred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amoun ts of ex- change for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reason- able requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above allocations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, w i thout limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held foreign funds. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal authentication; for dividends and interest, the approval authority up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one remittee has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations incurred in the NEW ZEALAND ordinary course of business also are norma l ly approved, but each remittance requires approval and new com- mitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing require the prior con- sent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of mainte- nance and /or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zea- land religious and charitable organizations or individu- als operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any l im i ta t ion. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 500 a remitter, and applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia, for any purpose except gambling or bu i ld ing up assets in the remitter's name, provided that no individual remittance exceeds $NZ 20. Travelers may take w i th them up to $NZ 50 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 5. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With m inor exceptions, all exports require export li- censes. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trad ing bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid un t il December 31, 1976 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must, unless prior consent is obtained, be received w i th in six months f rom the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia require the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affa irs. Certain items classified as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and sub- sequent to the issue of a permit to export. Temporary restrictions have been imposed on exports of tallow and specified types of mutton and on exports and re-exports of sugar. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to annual quan t i ta t ive res tra in t. Under an export bonus scheme, manu fac tu re rs sub- mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components still subject to import con- trol that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain conditions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufac ture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported materials and /or components used in manu- 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND fac ture by the exporter. Exports of lamb receive a subsidy. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents ( inc lud ing corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zea land) is paid in the fo rm of foreign assets,4 their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand bank ing system; interest and dividends earned overseas f rom portfolio inves tment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance w i th an overseas bank, it must be converted in to for- eign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of fore ign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may br ing into the coun try un l im i ted amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins, provided that any New Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by cor- porate bodies, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Applications for consent to borrow abroad by companies operating in the property sector are not normally approved, unless the project involved is consistent w i th the Government's housing policy. While overseas borrowing by f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions is controlled, consents are usually granted where the funds are required for industrial development purposes. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal bank ing channels or in some other way approved by the authori- ties, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized prof- its, may be repatriated, af ter the fo rmal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not permitted un t il the ex- piry of the term for which the funds were borrowed and in any case not within 12 months of the receipt of the proceeds. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission, under the terms of the Overseas Investment Regulations, 1974. *The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provi- sion of any securities, or any real or personal proper ty, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or con t ing en t ); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the pe r fo rmance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreemen t, scheme, or trans- action of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 336 Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow- ing by such companies also requires prior approval. Forward exchange facilities are available to cover borrowings abroad by New Zealand companies in cases where the borrowings relate to specific approved projects which w i ll develop industries based on the extraction or processing of indigenous raw materials. Any such forward exchange cover would be for the amount of the capital sum only and is norma l ly limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 million for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas In- vestment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies which are more than 75 per cent overseas owned is normally restricted to 10 per cent of the tu rnover in the previous financial year, w i th a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Companies which are predominantly but less than 75 per cent overseas owned may borrow locally, in add i t ion, an amount in proportion to the level of the ir borrowing f rom overseas based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident per- sons or companies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to give notice to, and seek the consent of, the Overseas Investment Commis- sion in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the inves tment would result in the control by the offerer of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's voting capital. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents t rans fer the whole of their assets to their new coun try of residence. App l ica t ions for the remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in fu l l. The au thor i t ies do not norma l ly make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government bonds purchased overseas by New Zea- land residents a f ter September 5, 1969 may not be t rans fe r red f rom the United Kingdom to the New Zea- land register. A New Zealand resident owning overseas securities is free to sell them to overseas residents for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, surrendered, or retained at the dis- posal of the New Zealand resident. With limited excep- tions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of any overseas country which were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip w i th an approved depository (i.e., the Reserve Bank of New Zea land ). These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the bank ing system or reinvested in other overseas securities within three months and the resulting scrip deposited. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for num isma t ic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice, 1948, it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales w i th in New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Depart- ment; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively, but the importa- tion of gold coins is exempt from license. Changes during 1975 January 24. A subsidy of $NZ 1 per lamb exported was announced. February 26. It was announced that the interest on loans arranged overseas by private firms and given specific consent under the 1974 Overseas Investment Regulations would be considered for exemption from nonresident withholding tax. March 3. The New Zealand Meat Producers Board handed the marketing of beef back to the trade and moved to a supplementary system of payment to pro- ducers. April 3. The 1975/76 Import Licensing Schedule was issued, to become effective on July 1. The schedule generally provided for a basic allocation equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the 1974/75 basic licenses. This percentage was not applied uniformly to all imports subject to license, the percentage allocation being 75 per cent of the value of 1974/75 licenses for tires and tubes, Manchester goods, grinding wheels, glassware, and cer- tain toys and ceramic articles; and 50 per cent for com- pletely built-up vehicles. In addition, a number of items previously covered by basic allocations were shifted to the "C" category; they included barley and rice flour, wines, certain textile fabrics, and cutlery. Some 70 per cent of imports would be exempt from license, as previously. The replacement scheme for completely knocked-down automobiles would continue unchanged; built-up licenses to assemblers would be restricted to NEW ZEALAND 3 per cent of the value of the basic license issued for completely knocked-down packs f rom July 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975. No additional items were listed in the exempt category. Licenses issued under the three-year license assurance scheme would be honored but it was not intended to add to the scheme or to extend the assurance beyond the initial three-year period. April 4. Imports from all sources of certain synthetic fabrics were made subject to an import licensing re- quirement, with a basic allocation of 60 per cent of the value of these imports in 1973/74. In May, additional synthetic fabrics were brought under the emergency action. May 8. It was announced that the Tariff and De- velopment Board would be replaced by an Industries Development Commission. The review of the tariff would be subject to new procedures. May 23. Sales taxes were raised and new taxes intro- duced on a wide range of nonessential goods with a high import content. May 23. Manufac turers developing new export mar- kets became eligible for nontaxable grants and tax con- cessions. Also, 5 per cent of professional or technical fees earned f rom approved overseas projects became tax free. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 26. A small number of commodities were added to the list under Schedule A of the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement providing for the elimi- nation of customs duties over a period of eight years. The first reduction in duty on these items came into effect on July 1. August 10. It was announced that the New Zealand dollar was being devalued by 15 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates approved by the Reserve Bank for quo ta t ion to the public on August 11 were US$1.0606 = $NZ 1 (selling) and US$1.0706 = $NZ 1 ( b u y i n g ); the corresponding rates on August 8 had been US$1.2479 and US$1.2579, respectively. The New Zealand dollar remained pegged to a basket of currencies. October 1. A bill to amend the legislation governing petroleum prospecting and mining licenses came into effect. October 7. The diversification target for lamb ex- ports to countries other than the United Kingdom was raised from 29 per cent to 30 per cent. December 15. It was confirmed that deliveries of butter to the United Kingdom would be limited to 122,000 tons in 1976, as agreed by the previous Government. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.105237 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba. The parity for the U.S. dollar is C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals with the commercial banks in U.S. dollars, the inter- vention currency, at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and sell- ing, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commer- cial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also author- ized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and deter- mining any advance deposits required; no advance de- posit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convert- ible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compen- sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compen- sation through the clearinghouse in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a month. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but 338 import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods, industrial materials, and other essen- tial goods; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceutical and veterinary supplies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased f rom banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight draf ts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports f rom Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Cen- tral Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such per- mission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released f rom customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia de pago) or that acceptance has been made through a bank (constancia de acepta- cion). In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this require- ment does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to a 6 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domesti- cally produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur- rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur- chased from a bank, with the exception stated in foot- note 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and co t tonseed), the Ministry of Econ- omy can fix m in imum export prices or temporarily pro- hibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Invest- ments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by NICARAGUA the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privileges, provided that the foreign currency is converted in the banking system: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and private investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authori- zation. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967. Changes during 1975 May 17. Decree No. 148/MEIC prohibited the im- portation of iron rods from outside Central America for a period of 12 months. July 22. A law went into effect which created spe- cial incentives for investments to promote tourism and valued at over US$1 million. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc l which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, subject to a commission f rom which transactions for the account of the public Treasury and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempt; the commission is Mo of 1 per mill for transfers to other countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union and 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan- cial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office in the Ministry of Finance which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is author- ized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra- tion, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Presidential Secretariat of State in charge of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Indus- 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 340 try, subject to the visa of the External Finance Office in the Ministry of Finance, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certifi- cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and, when imports are payable prior to importation, are first approved by the External Finance Office. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in foreign currencies or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Nigeria, however, are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in N iamey by authorized banks' foreign cor- respondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia or South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited irrespective of origin. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, many types of fabr ic, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organization of Afri- can and Maur i t ian States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West A f r ican Customs Union. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those mentioned above may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods f rom Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the EEC, many goods from other former OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non- EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual pro- gram that is determined each year by the Presidential Secretariat of State in charge of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corre- sponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan- titative restriction may be imported on an import cer- tificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Nigerien border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Office if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Office, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents travel- ing on tourist trips to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 50,000 for chil- dren under t e n ), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing af ter return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an authorized bank. The t rans fer of salaries of foreigners wo rk ing in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Office and is normally limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, in addition to their travel allocation. Resident travelers to other countries NIGER of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, when traveling to a French Franc Area country outside the West African Monetary Union, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Presidential Secretariat of State in charge of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. The due date of payments for exports to foreign countries must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be col- lected and, if the contract is denominated in a non- Franc Area currency, surrendered by sale on the exchange marke t, within two months after the due date. All export transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Residents must surrender 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA f rancs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Niger, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over the soliciting of f u n d s, for deposit w i th fore ign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 For- eign direct investments in Niger 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed 3 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fore ign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. * Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of fore ign companies. 342 by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- s tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual rate does not exceed the "nor- mal" market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a for- eign borrow ing constituting a direct investment is sub- ject to the same formalities as the l iqu ida t ion of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 (Law No. 68-24), as amended by Law No. 71-2 of January 29, 1971 and Law No. 74-18 of March 11, 1974. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been ma in ta ined. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular trea tmen t. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of nationalization and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and fa l l ing within speci- fied categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two d ifferent regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Niger. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and ( 3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when car- ried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1975 During the year, the prohibition on imports from Portugal was terminated. January 15. Order No. 75-17 removed certain cotton textiles from the list of items for which COPRONIGER has an import monopoly. July 9. Circular No. 26 modified Circular No. 23 of July 22, 1974 regarding nonresident accounts in francs and nonresidents' security dossiers. NIGER July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement. The parity between the CFA f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. August 20. Decree No. 75-34 terminated the duty- free treatment accorded to goods originating in the six original member states of the EEC. Such goods became subject to the minimum tariff. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nigeria is the Naira. On April 17, 1963 an initial par value of 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian pound was established. On February 14, 1973 a central rate of 1.11973 grams of fine gold per naira was established, corresponding at the time to N 0.793648 = SDR 1 or N 0.657893 = US$1. Nigeria avails itself of wider margins and the intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On April 1, 1974, however, Nigeria ceased to observe any specified margins. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in U.S. dollars and sterling with author- ized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar are set at VA of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate, and those for sterling are determined on the basis of the prevailing U.S. dollar rate and the previous day's U.S. dollar/ sterling middle rate quoted in London. The Central Bank does not normally publish rates for other foreign curren- cies.1 On December 31, 1975, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.6020 and US$1.5940, respectively, per N 1, and its buying and selling rates for sterling were £ stg. 0.7789 and <£ stg. 0.7751, respectively, per N 1. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any for- eign currency except Rhodesian currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of ship- ment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the naira. Currencies designated as specified currencies are Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 344 approving applications for the following: copyrights; the payment of shipping and marine insurance dues; the repatriation of capital and t rans fer of profits to any country outside N iger ia; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from out- side Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for impor ts); the granting of "approved status" to non- resident investments in Nigeria (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and insurance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and thus are empowered to deal in foreign cur- rencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any applica- tion that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks f rom foreign visitors and Nigerians newly arrived in the country. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign cur- rencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are cen- tralized w i th the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The Central Bank allocates foreign exchange da i ly to authorized dealers. Allocations are determined w i th in the framework of a foreign exchange budget, which, however, is essentially an indicative management tool rather than an allocation device. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Min- istries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Devel- opment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products, however, are issued by the Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power. Prescription of Currency Nigeria has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- l ing Area. Authorized payments to countries other than Rhodesia may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in naira f rom an External Account, in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for naira, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or in any specified currency. However, settlements with Niger are channeled through special accounts. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in naira of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into three categories: External Accounts, Rhodesia Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts, which are maintained for residents of all countries other than Rhodesia, may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with pro- ceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rho- desian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesia Accounts are maintained for residents of Rhodesia and have been blocked since July 3, 1969. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West A f r ica ), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the import from any country of certain specified commodities is banned, mostly for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of a few other commodities is also prohibited unless specific con- ditions have been complied with that are specified in the license authorizing such imports. Individual import licenses are required for a small number of items from all sources, including raw or manu fac tu red tobacco, cer- tain types of paper, and passenger automobiles w i th an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Namibia (South West A f r ica ), Rhodesia, or South Afr ica. Some imports are effected by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company Ltd. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Minis- try of Finance for the public sector). Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. For sight transactions, the importer must present the customs bill of entry within 90 days after the allocation of foreign exchange. NIGERIA Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Appli- cations for payments that cannot be approved by author- ized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and dividends) 2 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for deci- sion. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a com- pany in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insur- ance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of N 1,000 a person a year (N 500 a year for children under 1 2 ). Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addi- tion, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destina- t ion, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian cur- rency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered f rom the basic travel allowance. There is a separate travel allowance for pilgrimages, which for 1975 was the same as the tourist allocation but could not be combined w i th it. Business travel allowances are l im i ted to N 80 a day, up to 30 days a trip, for any number of trips. Allocations also are available for medi- cal care and study abroad; foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide educational expenses. Exchange appli- cations for most non tour ist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annua l ly foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross annual taxable income for all personal remittances for any purpose (including insurance, educa- tion, medical expenses, provident fund contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel allowance); appli- cations in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. When taking overseas leave, they may also convert up to three months' leave pay into foreign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 20 a New profits and dividends may be remitted as soon as they are declared. Remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are permitted where it can be shown that these are related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and management fees requ i re approval by the Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is nor- mally pe rm i t ted for the first five years a f t er the establishment of a new company, and thereafter a percentage of gross profit not exceeding 5 per cent. Each application is treated on its merits w i th in these broad guidelines. Similar policies are applicable to other service paymen ts, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA in domestic notes and coins; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally pro- duced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any country except South A f r ica and Namibia (South West A f r i c a ), exports to which require individual licenses. Individual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marketing Boards (mainly cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, ground- nuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm ke rne ls ) .3 The selling abroad of all export crops purchased by the Mar- keting Boards is the responsibility of the Nigerian Pro- duce Marketing Company. The export of certain goods (A f r ican antiquities or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foodstuffs is prohibited, and exports of cattle and groundnuts have been suspended. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a com- mercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, however, are exempt f rom the surrender require- ments. For all exports, the exporter is required to sub- mit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may freely br ing in foreign banknotes. Travelers may br ing in N 20 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, offi- cial agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The taking up of suppliers' credit abroad also is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any non- resident individual or company, and (2) by any com- pany registered in Nigeria (other than a b ank) which is 3 On February 4, 1976 exports of timber and of edible g roundnut oil and palm oil were suspended. 346 controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facil- ity to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Banks have been directed to allocate 40 per cent of their total loans and advances to Nigerian per- sons and firms. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds or naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negoti- ated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Remittances of cash gifts to nonresidents normally are restricted to the equivalent in any one fiscal year of N 1,000 for each transferor in favor of charitable orga- nizations outside Nigeria, and of N 300 per transferor for gifts to individuals. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final depar ture f rom the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 may take place upon receipt. Nonresidents in tend ing to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu ture requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this fo rms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally gener- ated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enter- prises. With m inor exceptions, foreign-owned compa- nies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval f rom the Ministry of Finance. Gold With the express permission of the Federal Commis- sioner for Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed with- out special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins current in the United Kingdom requires a license from the Com- missioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coins requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank for mone- tary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1975 March 21. The issue of negotiable and nonnegotiable certificates of deposit was permitted; they could only be denominated in naira. The first issue took place in September. April 1. It was announced that the Federal Govern- ment had authorized a foreign exchange budget for 1975/76 involving an inflow of about N 6.48 billion and a foreign exchange outflow of about N 5 billion. April 1. The requirement that a customs bill of entry be presented before foreign exchange could be allocated for imports was eliminated. Imports could again be made on sight terms, either under letter of credit or on a collection basis. April 1. The compulsory credit terms for imports of capital goods and equipment valued at more than N 100,000 were abolished. April 1. Commercial banks were authorized to keep working balances abroad to facilitate payments for imports under documentary letters of credit. April 1. Stockfish was removed from the list of imports subject to license, but passenger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters were added to the list. Import licenses for small cars would be allocated so as to ensure that 60 per cent of all cars under 2,000 cubic centimeters sold in Nigeria (imported or domestically produced) would be of two specified makes. The import ban on corned beef, edible nuts, margarine, imitation lard, other edible fats, and waste material from textile fabrics was lifted. April 1. Substantial tariff reductions were introduced, including reductions of 10 per cent in duties on food items, 5 to 40 per cent for other imported consumer goods, and almost 70 per cent for building materials in short supply. Relief from import duty was granted for the soap, detergent, confectionery, and candle industries, and excise duties were abolished for a wide range of goods. April 1. The basic travel allowance was increased from N 400 to N 1,000 a person a year, and the daily business travel allowance was raised from N 40 to N 80 a day for up to 30 days a trip, for any number of trips a year. NIGERIA April 1. The separate, lower travel allowance for travel w i th in Africa was abolished; the new tourist travel allowance became applicable. April 1. Travelers to and from Nigeria were author- ized to import or export up to N 20 in currency notes or coins. Previously, all export and import of naira was prohibited. Arrangements were made for ships and air- lines operating to and from Nigeria to exchange accumu- lated naira balances with the Central Bank. The latter was not obliged to exchange naira for nonresident hold- ers such as foreign banks. April 1. Authorization was granted for the immediate transfer abroad of proceeds of sales of businesses sold to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972. Previously, such proceeds had to be remitted according to a predetermined schedule. April 1. The ceiling of N 9,000 a person a financial year on personal remittances by expatriates was removed. Such remittances were subject, however, to a limit of 50 per cent of gross annual taxable income of the person concerned. April 1. The exchange allowance for cash gifts to nonresidents was increased. April 1. The ceiling of N 2,000 on fees which could be paid to nonresident directors of Nigerian companies was abolished. April 1. Payments in foreign exchange by post office money order for subscriptions, memberships, and sundry items were again permitted. April 1. It was announced that five foreign merchant banks had been granted approval to operate in Nigeria and that legislation would be introduced to provide for the operation of such banks. July 4. The Government assumed a 49 per cent inter- est in the 15 foreign insurance companies operating in Nigeria and announced the intention to establish its own reinsurance company. August 9. All shipping companies and agents operat- ing in Nigeria were required to register with the Nigerian Ports Authority and give at least two months' detailed notice of proposed sailings to Nigeria. In December, statutory force was given to these and related regulations by the Ports (Emergency Provisions) Decree No. 40 of 1975. August 18. Legal Notice No. 62 suspended import duty on cement. September 26. Legal Notice No. 92 suspended import duty on meat imported by the Nigerian Livestock and Meat Authority. October 10. Nigeria advised the GATT that it had decided to disinvoke Article XXXV of the General Agreement with respect to Japan. December 5. It was announced that a special com- mittee would negotiate demurrage and other outstanding claims of overseas cement suppliers. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone. In 1973 a central rate was estab- lished of NKr 1 = SDR 0.145530 or NKr 6.87145 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.129328 gram of fine gold per NKr 1, and Norway avails itself of wider margins. Margins of 21A per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Norwegian krone and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Luxem- bourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies. On December 31, 1975 the buying and sell- ing rates of the authorized banks for the U.S. dollar were NKr 5.5725 and NKr 5.5975, respectively. For- ward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transac- tions with nonbank residents must have a commer- cial basis. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro- hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible cur- rency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries, subject to the proviso that without special permission f rom the Bank of Norway the total balance held by a nonbank nonresident must at no time exceed NKr 100,000. They may be credited with authorized payments to any country, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with pro- ceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. 348 They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes, irrespective of coun- try of origin. With this exception, industrial goods may be imported freely f rom the import free list area l upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural products are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for industrial goods for specified countries —one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricul- tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fish- ing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permis- sion is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country except Rhodesia for all cur- rent invisibles, including income from capital and con- tractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. 1 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Japan, Nor th Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. 2 Au toma t ic au thor iza t ion is not gran ted for imports f rom Albania, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Nor th Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and No r th Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,3 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than NKr 500 to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship- ment and in conformity with the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Nor- way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permit- ted freely. Most transactions in securities involving non- resident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and pur- chased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the pro- ceeds from the sale; the purchase of shares of Nor- wegian bank ing and industrial firms by nonresidents is licensed restrictively on a case-by-case basis. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and NORWAY amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the excep- tion of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon appli- cation transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recrea- tional purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 80,000 a family; such purchases by business firms, staff associa- tions, etc., are approved liberally, also for higher amounts. In accordance with guidelines of December 13, 1971, the aggregate net foreign liability position of the banks may not deviate by more than NKr 260 million from the position at the end of October 1971, i.e., it must not be less than NKr 555 million or more than NKr 1,075 mil- lion. On May 23, 1972, however, these guidelines were modified slightly to allow the banks some additional flexibility in determining their net liability position. There are limits on the commercial banks' borrowing abroad. Thus, they may borrow funds or accept depos- its in foreign currency from foreign banks within a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above their total foreign borrowing at the end of December 1970. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or providing guaran- tee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Norway. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to sales tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1975 3 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. January L Authorized brokers could freely sell to, and buy from, nonresidents shares in the Norwegian 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY company Norsk Hydro A.S. Forward transactions could not take place. April 29. The Parliament authorized the Government to borrow abroad, and to guarantee borrowing abroad by others, up to the equivalent of NKr 5 billion. The authorization to guarantee borrowing abroad by others was limited to NKr 1 billion and expired on Decem- ber 31, 1975. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; accordingly, Norway again observed max imum margins of 21A per cent in respect of the French franc. August 13. A self-financing exchange risk cover scheme for export transactions came into effect. Cover could be extended by the Export Credit Guarantee Institute where it was not available on reasonable terms in the forward exchange market operated by the author- ized banks. In general, cover would only apply to the effects of exchange rate movements occurring within ten years f rom the conclusion of a contract. The pre- miums were stipulated as between 0.5 per cent and 2.5 per cent per annum, depending, inter alia, on factors such as the calculable risk and the period for which cover was required; for "snake" currencies and the U.S. dollar, however, a standard premium of 0.75 per cent was set provisionally. The cover commitment per con- tract could not as a rule exceed 35 per cent of the amount of the contract. Premiums and any exchange rate profits on covered contracts were to be channeled into a risk fund; shortfalls in this fund would be met by the Government, up to NKr 3 billion. August 25. A temporary automatic licensing arrange- ment was introduced for imports from all sources of certain textiles and garments. The arrangement was intended for surveillance only, licenses being granted automatically for imports f rom countries from which imports of these items previously were unrestricted. The ma in purpose was to prevent circumvention of bilateral agreements imposing restrictions on the impor- tation of these products and to provide early data on imports of the same items f rom other sources. December 11. The Parliament authorized the Gov- ernment to borrow abroad up to the equivalent of NKr 4 billion and to guarantee borrowing abroad by others up to the equivalent of NKr 1.5 billion, includ- ing NKr 1 billion authorized as of April 29, 1975. The latter authorization would expire on December 31, 1977. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On July 4, 1974, Oman established an initial par value of 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Rial Omani, corresponding at the time to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, while the commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. On December 31, 1975, the official buy ing rate for the U.S. dollar was RO 0.3450 per US$1, and the official selling rate was RO 0.3457 per US$1. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rhodesia also is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force.1 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required and exchange for pay- ments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foods tuffs may 1 Prior to June 23, 1972 Oman was administratively treated as a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Under current U.K. exchange control regulations, Oman is regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may br ing in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments must be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a for- eign investment law enacted in 1973. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1975 February 21. It was announced that Oman had bor- rowed Saudi Arabian riyals 50 million in the Euro- currency market. April 1. The Central Bank of Oman, which had been established on December 1, 1974, took over all assets and liabilities of the Oman Currency Board as at that date, and assumed all functions of the latter. June 24. Financial Circular No. 7/75 provided that the exemption from customs duties and other taxes that certain foreign companies had enjoyed while carrying out government projects would be withdrawn on Decem- ber 31. No such exemptions would be included in new agreements with the Government. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and Pakistan avails itself of wider margins. The State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) main- tains official rates of PRs 9.8844 buy ing, and PRs 9.9312 selling, per US$1 for dealings of banks with the public. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permit- ted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated to a number of banks and financial ins t i tu t ions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transac t ions are con- ducted through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), a state trad ing agency. Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle in any convertible currency or in Pak is tan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries, however, are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports f rom all other countries must be established in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domestic currency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with A fghan is tan, and settlements are made freely in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transac- tions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, the People's Repub- lic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Roman ia, Sweden, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts.1 There is a special trade and payments arrangement with the German Democratic Republic, w i th an indicative commodity list 1 The bilateral payments a r rangemen ts with "Hungary, Roman ia, and Yugoslavia expired on December 31, 1975. 352 only. The clearing accounts with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary are maintained in nonconvertible Pakistan rupees; those with the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are in U.S. dollars; and the clearing account w i th North Korea is denominated in deutsche mark. Payments to and f rom Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian oil, and defense ma ter ia ls) are settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dol- lars. Under a credit arrangement with the Central Bank of Ceylon, all trade with Sri Lanka is settled through a special U.S. dollar account. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Bangladesh, India, and Iran (i.e., Nepal and Sri Lanka) in respect of cur- rent transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian monetary un i ts through the Asian Clearing Union; for settlements w i th Sri Lanka, this is applicable to invisi- bles only. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of Ch ina, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are suspended. No bank ing transac t ions are permitted between Pakistan and Bangladesh. Restrictions on payments between Pakistan and India have been lifted insofar as they relate to trade transactions in terms of the trade protocol with India of November 30, 1974 or the trade agreement of Janua ry 23, 1975. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Pakistan are designated as non- resident accounts.2 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through bank ing channels or with rupee funds which have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified pur- poses can be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign na t iona ls, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open fore ign currency accounts w i th banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated, credit balances may be freely transferred abroad, and interest on such 2 D i f fe rent rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Paki- stan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in principle, be procured without restriction while items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 pro- gram. Items not on either list are effectively prohibited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Govern- ment for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, per- sonal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 3357 260/24 of June 12, 1951). Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the license and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent payable at the time of the issue of the license. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most impor tant of which are as follows: ( 1) Imports from the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. Imports from India are only permitted in accordance with the trade protocol of November 30, 1974. (2) In order to facilitate barter trading and aid utilization and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to industrial consumers. (4) In conformity with Regional Cooperation for Devel- opment arrangements between Iran, Pakistan, and Tur- key governing procurements from joint industrial ven- tures, the import of ten items, including six chemical items, is restricted to procurement f rom Turkey. Also, dates may be imported only from Iraq. (5) Special provisions exist for the import for export industries of tied list items from nontied sources and items not on either import list. (6) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of industrial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 750,000 for imports against cash and PRs 1.5 mil- PAKISTAN lion for imports under tied credit and under bilateral payments arrangements (larger plant and equipment are to be procured under the auspices of the financing institutions and with the approval of the Ministry of Indu s t ry ). Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manu- fac turers, the State Bank may authorize advance pay- ments for a part of the value of the goods. No import payments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or consigned f rom the Republic of China, India (other than imports covered by the trade protocol of Novem- ber 30, 1974), Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Except for specified items, including items on the tied import list, the State Bank requires banks to take a minimum margin of 25 per cent against import letters of credit. Certain goods are subject, irrespective of origin, to an import surcharge of 25 per cent ad valorem. These include cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, and passenger automobiles. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to Bangladesh, the Republic of China, India, Israel, South Africa, or Rho- desia. Under au thor i ty delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accord- ance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal na ture are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remit- tances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except w i th respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakir s tani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel; this allocation can be taken up once every two years. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an ind iv idual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle East- ern countries. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amoun ts they brought in and PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan cur- rency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan cur- rency. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks granted by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination, and all exports to the Republic of China, Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited.3 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for some 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to minimum export prices, and for certain textile products intended for export to member countries of the EEC. The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan has a monopoly over exports of cotton; rice is exported through the Rice Export Corporation and cement through the State Cement Corporation. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange w i th in a certain period of time. A f ter making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the author- ized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment; the State Bank may, on the merits of each case, allow an exten- sion of this period. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Industrial units established under the Pay-As-You- Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of sup- pliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on a range of export items, including raw cotton, rice, wool, and hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived f rom invisi- bles must be surrendered within one month. Travelers may bring in PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 and above may not be brought in. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins. 3 Prohibited exports include beef, mutton, grains, flour, da i ry prod- ucts, vegetables, poultry, blood meal, meat meal, corn gluten meal, sesame oil cake, certain citrus fruits (unless graded), and certain hides and skins. On Janua ry 21, 1976 exports of raw cotton were tem- porarily suspended. 354 Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pak is tan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward fore ign entrepreneurs, who can, with the approval of the Government, start any industry in the private sector w i thout any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, how- ever, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinar- ily be met f rom local equity capital. Repa tr ia t ion facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time there- a f ter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the coun try of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest- ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the pur- pose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation fac i l i t ies do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pak is tan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of na t iona l iza t ion of any project. Foreign na t iona ls in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any t ime of the principal and the prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securi- ties by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring f rom Pak is tan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the t rans fer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporar i ly residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of t rans fer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or t rans fer of Pakistani securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided the securities are registered at the Pakistani address of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and re tu rn. Pakistani securities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the trans- feror. A general permission has also been issued allow- ing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their nonresident accounts in Pak is tan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1975 January 1. A new commodity exchange arrangement between AB Sukab of Sweden and the TCP came into effect for a period of two years. January 3. Authorized dealers were required to main- tain balanced positions in each foreign currency on a daily basis; previously the State Bank fixed limits within which authorized dealers could keep their exchange positions oversold or overbought. The new requirement was withdrawn on April 3. January 23. A trade agreement was signed with India for a period of one year, permitting, initially, trade only on a government-to-government basis or through govern- ment-controlled trade corporations of the two countries. The goods to be exported from Pakistan and India under this agreement would be of Pakistani and Indian origin and for consumption in India and Pakistan, respectively; these goods could not be re-exported to third countries. February 1. An additional import duty of 25 per cent ad valorem was imposed on cocoa, coffee, many domes- tic appliances, passenger automobiles, and some other goods. The maximum rate of du ty became 275 per cent. February 12. For transactions under the new trade agreement with India, the regulations were revoked which prohibited authorized dealers f rom making remit- tances to India against imports, opening letters of credit for imports from India, opening letters of credit provid- ing for shipment of goods by Indian vessels, and making any endorsement on the export forms providing for ship- ment of goods to India. All bank ing transactions relat- ing to the new agreement were, however, conducted initially through the National Bank of Pakistan and the PAKISTAN State Bank of India, and documents therefore had to be routed through the former. February 12. Authorized dealers were advised that the Government had exempted from income tax the interest on foreign currency accounts held with banks in Pak is tan by foreign nationals residing in Pakistan. Previously, the exemption was applicable only to accounts held by citizens of Pakistan and foreign nationals residing abroad. February 24. The program for the exchange of goods in 1975 with the U.S.S.R. under the commodity exchange a r rangement of 1973 was finalized. April 9. It was announced that until fur ther notice no imports of sugar would be permitted. May. The import of secondhand rebuilt machinery and secondhand tractors was permitted to persons and firms ho ld ing their own foreign exchange abroad. June 7. Import duties were raised on a wide range of items, principally consumer goods. June 30. The commodity exchange arrangements of 1972 and 1973 between AB Sukab of Sweden and the TCP expired. June 30. The Import Policy Order, 1975 was issued, con ta in ing the import policy to be effective from July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976. The Order continued the prac- tice of two permitted lists (the free list and the tied l i s t ), and changes f rom the previous import policy were relatively minor. The ceiling on the value of import licenses for machinery and spare parts granted without prior approval of the Ministry of Industry was revised to PRs 750,000 ( f r om PRs 500,000) for cash-financed impor ts and to PRs 1.5 million for imports under tied loans and under bilateral payments agreements (from PRs 1 m i l l ion and PRs 2 million, respectively). Ball bearings and power tillers, previously on the tied list, were transferred to the free list, with power tillers reserved for import by the public sector. Gray cement and railway sleepers were moved from part A of the free list (generally importable) to part C (importable only by the public sec tor). Old newspapers were trans- ferred from part A of the free list to part B (importable only by indus tr ial use rs ). The quota for the import of artificial silk or synthetic ya rn was reduced from 400 pounds to 300 pounds per loom per quarter. Dates could be imported only f rom Iraq, and certain other items only f rom Turkey. July 9. Bills of lading for exports could henceforth be endorsed in the name of, and directly transmitted to, the importer abroad, by authorized dealers, provided that the latter had received fu ll payment in foreign exchange in advance. August 4. Rates of commission were specified up to which authorized dealers were empowered to allow deductions f rom invoiced amoun ts or sales proceeds on account of commission, brokerage, or other trade charges due to be paid by exporters to foreign importers or agents. Previously, the approval of the State Bank was required in all cases. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN September 1. The validity of the 1971 commodity exchange agreement w i th Yugoslavia was extended to December 31, 1975, for exports from Pakistan only. September 16. Exports of emeralds and other pre- cious or semiprecious stones were permitted without specific approval of the State Bank, but only against letter of credit or firm contract providing for payment on a documents against payment basis. Previously, all transactions were subject to clearance by the State Bank. November 1. The Asian Clearing Union (ACU) began operations. At the option of the payor or payee, payments and receipts for current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) to and f rom Bangladesh, India, Iran, Nepal, and Sri Lanka could be settled in Asian monetary units, one un it being equivalent to SDR 1. Pakistan began to participate in these arrangements on November 1. How- ever, under existing Pakistani instructions no bank ing transactions could take place between Pakistan and Bangladesh. Similarly, no bank ing transactions between Pakistan and India could take place except to the extent of the trade conducted on a government-to-government level under the trade protocol of January 23, 1975 (see above). Trade with Sri Lanka would continue to be settled through a special account under arrangements valid un t il December 31, 1975, but settlement of invis- ible transactions with Sri Lanka was to take place under the ACU arrangements with effect f rom November 1. Payments between Pakistan and Iran were ineligible for settlement through the ACU. November 10. An agreement on trade in textile prod- ucts was signed with the EEC. December 23. Authorized dealers were advised that the credit arrangement with the Central Bank of Ceylon would rema in operative beyond December 31, 1975 until fu r ther instructions; payments for imports and exports would continue to be channeled through the special U.S. dollar clearing account. December 24. A new commod i ty exchange agreement with the People's Republic of China was concluded. Settlements were to take place through the special accounts in nonconvertible Pakistan rupees. December 31. The bilateral payments arrangements w i th Hungary, Roman ia, and Yugoslavia expired. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa. The parity rate for the U.S. dollar is B 1.00 = US$1, and Panama does not avail itself of wider margins. U.S. currency notes and coins circu- late freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins, a commemorative 20-balboa silver coin, and two commemorative gold coins of B 100 and B 500. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based mainly on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informa t ional purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panaman ian Governmen t. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods tuffs. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 7 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2l/2 per cent and 3J/2 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for human i tar ian, educational, medical, or informa t ional purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manufactured products in short supply. Merchan- dise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, certain foods tuffs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any fo rm with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of l/2 of 1 per cent. Changes during 1975 January 1. By virtue of Law No. 87 (published on November 13, 1974), import duties on many textiles and garments were increased, and the general rate of the additional import tax was increased from 6 per cent to 7 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods. January 10. Imports of certain types of footwear were limited to one dozen pairs a year. Other types of foot- wear were restricted to average imports for 1973 and 1974. March 21. Imports of ham were limited to the 1974 level. April 5. Imports of orange juice were made subject to a quota of 10 per cent of the 1974 level. April 22. Imports of iron and steel bars were limited to 10 per cent of the 1973 level. June 10. Imports of wood became subject to licensing. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA June 13. A temporary export tax on sugar was introduced. September 15. Imports of rice were restricted by an annual quota of 10 quintals. September. A system of nontransferable export tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario) for nontraditional exports came into operation, under Law No. 108 of December 30, 1974. Certificates were granted in an amount equivalent to 20 per cent of the domestic value added. September. Resolution No. 234 of the Price Regula- tion Office further reduced imports of ham to 50 per cent of the 1974 level. It also restricted imports of pork and bacon. October 25. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of B 500 was issued. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA1 (Position on January 1, 1976) Exchange Rate System The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Kina, which is officially maintained at parity with the Austra- lian dollar. The Bank of Papua New Guinea deals with local banks in Australian dollars, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars only. On January 1, 1976, the Bank's fixed buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar were K 1.0010 and K 0.9990 per Australian dollar, and its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 0.7948 and K 0.7961 per U.S. dollar. The corre- sponding rates for the public posted by the authorized dealers were K 1.0025 buying, and K 0.9975 selling, per Australian dollar, and K 0.7933 buying, and K 0.7977 selling, per U.S. dollar. The Bank of Papua New Guinea's exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is set daily on the basis of the middle rate quoted by the Reserve Bank of Australia. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea administers exchange control by means of the Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Department of Finance. The Bank delegates extensive powers to the trading banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Relations and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign currency.2 Export proceeds may be received in any for- eign currency or in Papua New Guinea currency from an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea seeks to control all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such accounts may be withdrawn without fur ther formal- ity. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported from Rhodesia are con- 1 Papua New Guinea became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund on October 9, 1975. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. cerned. Authorized dealers have powers to approve the great majority of transactions without the necessity for completion of application forms or reference to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Approval is given for pay- ment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equipment. There are no import licensing requirements. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies written af ter December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not permit- ted. No absolute limits are imposed on travel funds, although applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for num isma t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Over- seas visitors are free to take out any currency which they brought in and had recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods w i thout exchange control formality (except to Rhodesia) on condition that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months before or after the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to com- ply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Bank for a Specific Authority. No authority is needed for certain excepted categories of goods; these include sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Valua- tion) Act. Special provisions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood chips). Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without limit; advance commitments, however, 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA are only given in exceptional circumstances. Persons who have been granted temporary residential status by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings with- out limit. New investment outside Papua New Guinea by perma- nent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio rea- sons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for private companies, and K 100,000 for public com- panies. Investment may only be in the fo rm of market- able company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by perma- nent residents.3 Where direct investment is involved, approval would norma l ly depend on the extent to which additional real benefits (such as exports) would accrue f rom the investment. Approval is needed for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea, both f rom the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Foreign Exchange Regulations and f rom the National Investment and Development Authority under legislation governing that Authority. In addition to investment in the form of loans and equity capital, approval is also necessary f rom the Bank for the acknowledgment of indebtedness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Go ld) Regulations is necessary for the sale, purchase, and export of gold. An exemp- tion to the Regulations allows native miners to export gold to Australia for refining without specific approval. The Regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coins with a gold content of over K 50. A K 100 gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate; it may be taken out freely by travelers. Changes during 1975 April 19. Papua New Guinea issued its own currency, the kina, at par with the Australian dollar; Australian currency began to be withdawn f rom circulation. A "dual currency period" began, which ended on Decem- ber 31. 3 Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as includ- ing deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due to persons out- side Papua New Guinea. 360 April 19. The Bank of Papua New Guinea began dealing with the local banks in Australian dollars. On October 6, U.S. dollars and Japanese yen were added. April 19. The amount of Papua New Guinea notes and coin which a person may take or send out of the country without exchange approval to countries other than Australia was increased from $A 100 to K /$A 200 in notes and K / $A 5 in coin. September 19. A commemorative gold coin with a face value of K 100 was issued. It was declared legal tender. September 30. Import duties on many consumer dura- bles were increased sharply. October 16. Exemptions to the Foreign Exchange Regulations and the Central Banking (Gold) Regula- tions 1973 were declared, allowing persons to take or send out of Papua New Guinea, without exchange control approval, notes and coin specially issued or minted for numismatic purposes. November 28. Papua New Guinea notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. December 31. The Australian dollar ceased to be legal tender in Papua New Guinea, which ceased to be part of the Australian monetary area. The following changes took place at the beginning of 1976: January 1. The Bank of Papua New Guinea posted fixed buying and selling rates for the Australian dollar, with margins around the parity; previously, kina were exchanged for Australian dollars at the parity rate. January 1. The Declaration of November 1, 1973, by which the Foreign Exchange Regulations were deemed not to apply to transactions between residents of Papua New Guinea and residents of Australia, was revoked. As a result, un i fo rm exchange controls became appli- cable between Papua New Guinea and all countries. Aus tra l ia took similar reciprocal action. January 1. The definitions of permanent and tempo- rary residents were revised. January 1. An exemption to the Foreign Exchange Regulations was declared allowing temporary residents to deal freely with their foreign securities. January 1. The General Authority for the export of goods was amended in order to accord banks domiciled in Australia the same nonresident status as banks domi- ciled in other countries. January 1. Portfolio investment overseas was allowed in a slightly wider range of investments than previously; the limits in force since 1973 remained unchanged for individuals but were lowered for private and public companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para- guayan Gua rani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transac- tions take place in a dual exchange market. Transactions in the official exchange market (mercado libre bancario) must be carried out through the Central Bank of Para- guay ( for all government transactions) or an authorized commercial bank; these transactions take place at a rate of 0 126 per US$1, subject to taxes and commis- sions. Transactions in the f luc tua t ing free market (mer- cado libre fluctuante de cambio) are conducted through licensed foreign exchange houses at a fluctuating rate which on December 31, 1975 was about 0 140 per US$1 buying, and 0 143 per US$1 selling. All purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1 Vi per cent, except transactions w i th foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat packing plants; and transactions relating to investments in Paraguay that are covered by Law No. 216 of Novem- ber 9, 1970, as amended. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. A tax of 10 per cent is levied on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and a tax of 30 per cent on remittances of interest, royalties, rents, honorar- iums, commissions, and other income accru ing to non- residents f rom Paraguayan sources. There are no for- ward exchange facilities. The transactions settled in the official exchange ma rket are exports and imports (except unrecorded border t rade ), certain current invisibles, all government transac- tions, registered private capital transac t ions, and related profit remittances. All other transactions are channeled through the f luc tua t ing free market, unless settlements are effected under reciprocal credit agreements with LAFTA countries. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies * to the Cen- tral Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines fore ign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions car- ried out by commercial banks and authorized foreign exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru must be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. There are no other prescription of cu r rency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.2 Cer- tain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are ma in ly narcotics and arms and ammun i t ion. All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue, which is retained for 120 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required fo r, inter alia, public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain in te rna t ional organizations, petroleum and petro- leum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equ ipmen t, wheat, and newsprint f rom any source, imports f rom neighboring countries and Uruguay, and imports f rom other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). The Central Bank has au thor i ty to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods or ig ina t ing in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges f rom 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived f rom petroleum is sub- ject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). There is an addi- t ional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports f rom all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Commodities that are exempt f rom sur- charge generally are also exempt from advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The fo l low ing are the principal exemptions f rom sur- charge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petro- leum exploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; imports by fore ign diplomats and certain international organiza- tions; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and imp lemen ts imported through the Spanish free zone in 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian f rancs, Braz i l ian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These include sugar, rice, flour, and certain other agricultural prod- ucts and food s tu f f s, certain petroleum products, cement, certain yarn and textiles, and certain wire and wire products. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under Capital Investment Law No. 216/70. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff surcharge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law No. 1334/67, which implemented Decree-Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967, and Law No. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is generally 12-24 per cent (8-16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA con- cessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is cal- culated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and the true market value upon arrival in customs for imports from other countries. Exempt f rom this comple- men tary import du ty are public sector and d ip loma t ic imports; raw materials and equ ipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 216/70; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consump- tion Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law No. 69/68. In addition to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on either the c.i.f. value of imports or the true market value upon arrival in customs: a con- sular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are reg- istered; the terms may vary from case to case. Capital imported under Law No. 216/70 may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency origi- nally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18 of 1952 provides that the Central Bank may determine the max imum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired by the Central Bank or institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In practice resi- dents may freely purchase, hold, an^ sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf w i th residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, for which nonbank residents and industrial users are eligible; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. Changes during 1975 January 2. Central Bank Circular No. 47 /74 of December 17, 1974 came into effect, which aimed at ensuring that the fu ll exchange proceeds f rom exports were sold in the official exchange market. The Circular required exporters to sell to commercial banks export receipts equivalent to either the m in imum surrender value (aforo) or the invoiced export value, whichever was greater. For coffee and soybeans, however, surrender of exchange proceeds could in all cases be based on aforos. All export taxation continued to be based on aforos. PARAGUAY February 11. Law No. 489 came into force. It rede- fined the value of imports for customs valuation pur- poses as the true market value at the time of arrival in customs (f.o.b. value plus freight, insurance, packaging costs, documentation expenses, and consular fees) instead of the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent. March 29. Decree-Law No. 5 established new pro- cedures for the valuation of imports and created a Cus- toms Valuation Advisory Council. April 21. Circular No. 14/75 provided that the sur- render of export proceeds f rom cotton fiber could be based on aforos. May 22. Central Bank Resolution No. 108, Minute No. 10, revoked the provision that advance import deposits were to be retained for 180 days if the deposit was made af ter shipment. The retention period of 120 days became applicable whether the advance import deposit was lodged before or after shipment. June 27. Resolution No. 23, Minute No. 110, pro- vided that in banks' exchange transactions with the pub- lic the buy ing and selling rate should be identical. July 14. Resolution No. 3, Minute No. 119, prohib- ited authorized banks from charging more than 2 per cent commission on sales of foreign exchange; no com- mission could be charged on purchases of exchange. October 14. Decree No. 18182 reduced import duties and other import charges on buses and trucks. November 18. Decree No. 18991 revoked Decree No. 7005 of June 28, 1975 and reduced import duties and other import charges on many goods. December 19. Decree No. 19635 prohibited the import of various types of cotton textiles also produced locally. December 19. Law No. 550/75 amended the Capital Investment Law, Law No. 216/70. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with a single fixed exchange rate of S/. 45 per US$1, buying and selling. The exchange certificate market rate applies to all trade transactions and specified non trade trans- actions, including the principal capital movements, and the d ra ft market rate to services and most other nontrade transactions. The foreign exchange requ iremen ts of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate marke t. Export proceeds must be converted in to exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru in U.S. dollars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports (f.o.b.) and for certain non trade transac- tions. Generally, no exchange certificates are issued against export proceeds surrendered by the public sector, nor are certificates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since normally the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct f rom and to government agencies at the certificate rate. When approved applications for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. All foreign exchange receipts that are not required to be surrendered at the certificate rate must be sold in the d r a ft market, in which only the government-owned Banco de la Nacion and its authorized agents operate. Access to the d ra ft market is controlled and purchases of fore ign exchange are permitted only for specified paymen ts not eligible for exchange at the certificate rate. The banks are required to quote a s ing le rate for buy ing and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent on sales of certificates (none on purchases of certificates); they may charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling, on transactions in the d ra ft market. A s tamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank controls the use of certificates for import payments. It also authorizes the use of certificates for nontrade transactions; for profit remittances by branches of foreign companies, prior approval by the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance must be obtained in addition. 364 All imports of, and most payments for services by, the public sector require the approval of the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Public Sector and a reso- lution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; a s im i lar Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector ( JUTREX) approves import paymen ts by the pri- vate sector on the basis of an annual forecast of imports that has been authorized by the competent sectoral ministries. Borrowing abroad by the public sector as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a government guarantee are subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, upon favorable recommendation by the High Committee of the External Debt, the National Planning Institute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The External Office for Foreign Investment in the Com- mercial Sector (Omsco) supervises foreign commercial investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, pat- ents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies;1 exchange certificates at present are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the Central Reserve Bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under bilateral payments agreements. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Payments between Peru and Argen- t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i la teral c lear ing system. Imports and Import Payments 2 The import of a number of consumer goods that are considered nonessential is prohibited unless covered by concessions negotiated under the LAFTA and Andean Group agreements. Moreover, the import of a large number of manu fac tu res included in the Na t ional Reg- ister of Manu fac tu red Products requires the approval of the M in is try of Industry and Tourism and of the customs authorities, which is granted only in exceptional circumstances unless the goods originate in a country of the Andean Group. Most private sector impor ts require 1 The proceeds must be received in the currency in which the con- tract is expressed if it is one of the following currencies: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Otherwise, export proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars. 2 Decree-Law No. 21390 of J anu a ry 9, 1976 provided for the intro- duction w i th in 90 days of a system of import licensing operated under the supervision of the Ministry of Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the prior authorization of the competent sectoral min- istry on the basis of an annual import forecast submitted by the importer. JUTREX allocates exchange (in annual allotments to the individual importers) in accordance with the annual import forecast approved by the sectoral ministries; imports of goods originating in countries of the Andean Group are exempt from this allocation sys- tem. The allocations are marked on individual import- er's cards (tarjetas de importador). Public sector agen- cies may not place import orders without the prior approval of the Commission on Public External Trans- actions and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by the Fish Meal Market- ing Agency (E PCHA P ), and crude petroleum and petro- leum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Industrial Marketing (ENCI). Payments for the f.o.b. value of private sector imports, whether under documentary letters of credit or on a documentary collection basis, and for interest charges on foreign import credits, may be made at the certifi- cate exchange rate; however, payments for freight and import-related bank ing charges other than interest must be made at the d ra ft market rate. Transport insurance contracts for imported goods must be placed with national insurance companies unless a specific exemp- tion from this requirement is obtained f rom the Banco de la Nacion, in which case premium payments are made at the d ra ft market rate. The fu ll c.i.f. value of public sector imports may be paid with certificates. The use of certificates for import payments requires the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank, which provides the foreign exchange to the commercial banks against delivery of the certificates. The commer- cial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the importation of merchandise. The relevant shipping docu- ments and the bill of lading, together with the commer- cial invoice and the remittance letter issued by the exporter, must be forwarded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registration and validation. Submission of import contracts or other evidence supporting the transaction is required for advance import payments when the shipping documents are not avail- able; in addition, the intermediary bank must provide a guarantee equal to the sol value of the advance pay- ment. If the shipping documents are not presented within 30 days af ter the utilization of the foreign exchange, the Central Reserve Bank will collect the guarantee and refund this sum only when the required documents have been presented. M in imum credit terms have been prescribed for many imports. For imports of capital goods valued at over US$10,000 f.o.b., at least 80 per cent of the value must be financed PERU abroad through loans either from suppliers or other foreign creditors or from the Peruvian state develop- ment banks, to be repaid in accordance with minimum credit terms set by JUTREX. The state development banks may only provide such financing for national enterprises; these loans are repayable at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of repayment. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize the sale of exchange cer- tificates only for partial advance payments of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value for imports of capital goods by the private sector (20 per cent of the c.i.f. value for public sector imports). These imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevocable docu- mentary credits and the intermediary bank must guar- antee re fund ing of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. For private sector imports of goods other than capital goods from countries outside the Andean Group, the m in imum external financing terms at the end of 1975 were as follows: (1) foodstuffs and pharmaceutical products were exempt; (2) a credit period of at least 90 days f rom the date of shipment was prescribed for certain intermediate and finished goods; (3) the corre- sponding m in imum period for all other goods was 120 days; and (4) import shipments valued at up to US$5,000 (c. & f.) were exempt, up to a total value of US$50,000 a year for each importer. Imports are subject to a surcharge tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean fre ight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical prod- ucts, books, and coins. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization is required in order to pay for invisibles w i th certificates or at the certificate rate. The transac- tions in invisibles that are eligible for the certificate market include government payments, profit remittances by branches of foreign companies operating in Peru, dividend remittances to foreign shareholders (provided that the original investment took place at the certificate r a t e ), and interest payments on those loans for which amortization may be transferred through the certificate marke t. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, require a resolution of the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clear- ance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. More- over, in compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Group, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered w i th the competent agency. Access to the certificate market or the draft market for profit remittances is determined according to the market through which the inves tment is made. Remittances of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru are limited to 14 per cent a 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU year;3 foreign-owned enterprises may not pay royalties under new contracts to a foreign parent company or its affiliates; and the effective interest rate on a new loan f rom a foreign parent company or its foreign affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is denominated. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates must be obtained in the d ra ft mar- ket, subject to the prior authorization of the Banco de la Nacion. For private sector payments in respect of a large number of current invisibles the sale of foreign exchange is authorized freely, either by the Banco de la Nacion or its agents, provided evidence is presented that genuine current payments are involved. These cate- gories include insurance premiums, the remuneration of technicians hired abroad, interest on loans for which amortization payments are permitted to be transferred through the draft market, rental income, pensions, and commissions. Payments for royalties, patents, and trade- marks require the prior approval of the contract by the competent agency. For certain other payments of the private sector basic allocations have been established up to which foreign exchange is sold freely through the d ra ft market by the Banco de la Nacion. These cate- gories include expenses abroad connected with tourist and business travel, study, and fam i ly maintenance. The basic limit up to which foreign exchange for tourist travel may be sold is the equ iva lent of S/. 1,500 a person a day for a max imum of 30 days in any one calendar year for travel to any country.4 The Banco de la Nacion fixes basic m ax imum amoun ts of foreign exchange which may be purchased annua l ly by each eligible company for business travel abroad by its offi- cials. There is a travel tax, which takes the form of a tax on a traveler's acquisition of goods and services abroad (including the cost of passages and fares) of 15 per cent for tourist travel and 20 per cent for business t rave l5 on amounts up to the daily limits specified above, and of 50 per cent on any amoun ts in excess of these limits; the m in imum amount payable is S/. 50 a day for each day spent abroad. Exempt are residents travel- ing on official business and foreign diplomats. Travel for medical trea tment or study abroad also is exempt. The tax is paid prior to depar ture on the basis of a sworn declaration specifying separately the amount of the fare, the value of anticipated services to be received, and da i ly expenses. Air and sea passages are in addition subject to a 15 per cent ad valorem tax (9 per cent for economy class f a r e s ). Foreign na t iona ls resident in Peru must obtain a special travel permit for business 3 Companies exporting at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Group and mining companies are exempt. 4 Changed with effect from January 1, 1976, as follows: S/. 1,200 a person a day for travel in the Amer ican con t inent and S/. 1,350 a person a day for travel elsewhere. 5 Increased to 30 per cent across-the-board in January 1976, by Decree-Law No. 21385. The minimum amount payable was increased to S/. 200 for each day spent abroad. 366 travel abroad (permiso especial de salida y reingreso). Such permits cost S/. 1,000 and are valid for six months. The export of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank grants exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINEROPERU and the Banco Minero over exports of gold and silver. EPCHAP has a monopoly over exports of fish meal, fish oil, and cotton, and EPSEP over exports of fish for human consumption. All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export pro- ceeds to the certificate market. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surrender the foreign exchange proceeds w i th in ten working days of paymen t. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of non trad i t ional exports or local hand icraft articles are granted transferable tax credit certificates (certificados de reintegro tributario or CERTEX) equiva- lent to 15-30 per cent of the c. & f. va lue (of the f.o.b. value when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels).6 These certificates may be used by the exporter in pay- ment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion adm in is ters an export credit guarantee program and the Indus tr ial Bank provides or arranges export finance for non t rad i t ional exports. Tra- d i t ional exports are subject to a special tax of 10 per cent on any excess of the actual price over the reference price fixed by the M in is try of Commerce. Proceeds front Invisibles Most public sector entities other than the state banks must surrender the ir fu ll receipts at the certificate rate; the exceptions are earnings f rom services provided by the Peruvian Shipping Company (CPV) and the Peru- vian A ir l ine Company (AERO PERU ), which are eligible for the d ra ft ma rket rate. All other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the d ra ft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian cur- rency, but the Central Reserve Bank grants exemptions in special circumstances. Capital All outward capital transfers require prior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans 6 The rates were increased by 5 per cent in January 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution contracted by the private sector, provided that the for- eign exchange proceeds of the loan have been sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organi- zations, and for payment of debts guaranteed by the State. Payments in connection with all loans received before June 17, 1971 and not channeled through the certificate market must be transferred through the d ra ft market. The proceeds of all foreign loans received after June 17, 1971 must be converted in the certificate mar- ket; amortization and service payments in respect of these loans are also settled through the certificate mar- ket. All exchange receipts that are not required to be sold in the certificate market must be sold in the d ra ft market. Only the Banco de la Nacion may receive funds origi- nating abroad for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of nonresidents; these funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and are exempt f rom income and inheritance taxes un t il December 31, 1978. Foreign investment in Peru is governed by Decree- Law No. 18900 of June 30, 1971, which ratified the Andean Common Market's policy on the treatment of foreign capital, by Decree-Law No. 18999 of Octo- ber 19, 1971, and by Decree-Law No. 19232, Decree- Law No. 19307, Decree-Law No. 19971, and the legis- lation ruling the Peruvian exchange system. All foreign investments in Peru require the prior approval of the competent authorities with a view to channeling such investments to projects considered essential for the coun- try's development. If they wished to enjoy for their products the advantages deriving f rom the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, foreign companies incorporated in Peru as at July 1, 1971 had to agree, by June 30, 1974, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to t rans fo rm them into mixed or national companies du r ing a maxi- mum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed com- panies are defined as those in which na t ional investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. After June 30, 1974, the participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise had to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participa- tion must increase to at least 45 per cent af ter 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participa- tion by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in m in ing activi- PERU ties (including petroleum production) and in firms which export at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt f rom the requirement of gradual transforma- tion into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit f rom the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. All insurance and reinsurance companies that are not branches of foreign firms had to become national enterprises by June 30, 1974, and all insurance and reinsurance companies established in Peru after July 17, 1973, had to be completely owned by national investors. Investment in the m in ing sector is governed by the General Mining Law (Decree-Law No. 18880) of June 8, 1971, which replaced the Mining Code of May 12, 1950. Companies holding m in ing concessions may enter into m in ing contracts with the Government providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government partici- pation of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of m in ing contracts, the Government may grant to mining concessionaires in i t ia t ing large-scale investment pro- grams tax incentives and guaranteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers of (1) recovery of in- vestment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for s im i lar loans in the financial ma rket f rom which the loans originate; (3) paymen ts for justified services; and (4) reasonable prof it remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in add i t ion, special tax reductions. Gold The marketing of precious metals and their import and export are governed by Decree-Law No. 18882 of June 15, 1971 and Supreme Decree No. 065-71-EF of the same date. The export of gold and silver in the fo rm of agglomerated or native metals is the monopoly of MINEROPERU, while their export in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. All imports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs (S /. 15,000 for trips to bordering countries). 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Changes during 1975 During the year, additional commodities were included in the National Register of Manufac tured Products. January 1. The new general customs law (Decree- Law No. 20165 of October 2, 1973) came into force. It incorporated the 10 per cent surcharge (Supreme Decree No. 202 of June 24, 1968) and the 2 per cent statistical tax which previously were levied separately (Decree-Law No. 20747 of October 1, 1974). January 1. Consular invoices ceased to be required for imports. New documentation requirements for commercial invoices came into force (Supreme Decree No. 020-74-MiNCOM of November 13, 1974, published on December 12, 1974). January 1. Imports from Chile, Colombia, and Venezuela of goods not on the exception list but included in the PID (punto inicial de desgravacion) list became subject to reduced import duties (Decree- Law No. 20616 of May 21, 1974). January 7. The travel tax, to the extent it was applicable to the basic amounts for a traveler's acquisi- tion of goods and services abroad, was increased from a flat 10 per cent to 15 per cent for tourist travel and to 20 per cent for business travel (Decree- Law No. 21061). January 21. Decree-Law No. 21083 made the mar- keting of domestic and imported rice a state monopoly. January 21. The standard rate of the tax on goods and services (payable on production, imports, and wholesale transactions) was increased to 17 per cent (Decree-Law No. 21070 of Janua ry 2 1 , 1 9 7 5 ). February 3. EPSA was put in charge of the market- ing of rice (Supreme Decree No. 1-75-AL). February 4. Decree-Law No. 21094 was issued, containing a new Organic Law for the Energy and Mining Sector. February 18. The open-ended customs duty con- cessions period for spare parts and components for the automotive industry (which had been introduced by Decree-Laws Nos. 19256, 19859, and 20536) was terminated with effect from January 1, 1976 (Decree- Law No. 21098). April 21. A new government agency, the Oficina de Inversion Extranjera del Sector Comercio (Omsco), was established to supervise foreign commercial invest- ment in Peru, as well as contracts regarding foreign trademarks, patents, licenses, and royalties. The agency was under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce (Ministerial Resolution No. 304-75-CO/AJ). April 22. Decree-Law No. 21135 extended indefi- nitely the tax surcharge of 10 per cent on traditional exports which had been introduced by Decree-Law No. 20505 of January 15, 1974. July 23. New regulations were issued regarding the export and import of domestic currency in the region bordering on Ecuador (Supreme Resolution No. 98-75-EF/II). September 26. The exchange rates in the certifi- cate market and the draft market were unified at S/. 45 = US$1, buying and selling. Previously, the rate in the certificate market had been unchanged since September 1967 at S/. 58.70 (buying and selling), while the rate in the draft market had been stable since May 1970 at S/. 43.38 (buying) and S/. 43.50 (selling) per US$1. The dual exchange market was maintained. September 26. JUTREX revoked the requirement of a documentary letter of credit applicable since May 1974 to all private sector imports. October 28. Decree-Law No. 21297 reserved to the State the right to engage in the exploration, mining, or refining of radioactive minerals. November 17. A National Registry of Importers was created in the Directorate of Foreign Trade, replacing the previous Registry of Importers (Supreme Decree No. 011-75-CO/CE). November 21. Exports of fish meal and fish oil were suspended. They were resumed in April 1976. December 16. The State assumed the monopoly over imports of all alcoholic beverages and certain food- s tuffs; with effect from January 1, 1976, these imports were effected through ENCI and the Empresa de Servi- cios de Administration y Gerencia de la EPSA (AGEPSA ), respectively (Decree-Law No. 21353). December 17. The Banco de la Nation reduced the exchange allocation for expenditures abroad from S/. 1,500 a person a day, applicable to all countries, to S/. 1,200 a person a day for travel in the American continent and S/. 1,350 a person a day for travel else- where. The new allocations would apply in 1976. December 23. CERPER was charged w i th the control over the quality of products imported by EPCHAP and ENCI (Decree-Law No. 21361). 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso. All exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1975 this rate was about P 7.50 per U.S. dollar. In spot transactions with their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The maxi- mum and m in imum spot buying rates are l/2 of 1 per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The m in imum and maximum spot selling rates are 34 of 1 per cent and W* per cent above the gu id ing rate, respectively. The Central Bank of the Philippines, which is not governed by the Association's trading rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange w i th in the above margins required by the Association. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks quote cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar. Interbank t r ad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX ), where the Central Bank f rom t ime to t ime acts as a buyer or supplier. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are adm in is tered by the Central Bank, which issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines requires the prior approval of the Board of Inves tmen ts (BO I ). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be obtained in Canadian dol- lars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor- porate, without prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of proper- ties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belong- ing to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. However, withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are sub- ject to individual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may under certain circumstances maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low). Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, morals, and national security and those of certain others, mostly agr icu l tural commodities, for protective purposes. There are no other quantitative restrictions on imports (other than imports of go ld ); however, payment for imports of specified commodities is subject to prior approval of the Central Bank.1' 2 Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods cate- gories (unc lass if ied, semiunclassified, and nonessential consumer goods) or for completely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Any impor- ta t ion of plant, machinery, equipment, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with ma tu r i ty periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Cen tral Bank. If payment terms are cash or w i th in 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importation by any single importer of non- ag r icu l tu ral mach inery and equipment with an aggregate va lue in excess of US$50,000 within a calendar month, w i th the exception of ( 1) certified export-oriented firms, and (2) other importers who have obtained prescribed certification f rom the BOI. Imports from socialist or communist countries must be effected through NETRACOR, a government trad ing firm with the exception that most imports f rom the Peo- ple's Republic of China are handled by the Philippine In terna t ional Trading Corporation.3 As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D /A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangements. The use of the D /A and O /A procedures is l im i ted ma in ly to firms with a history of importing under these arrangemen ts prior to February 21, 1970; to producer firms established a f ter that date and expressly authorized by the Mone tary Board to import under these 1 Authorized agent banks have been instructed not to accept applica- tions for letters of credit or foreign exchange in respect of specified textile products that are subject to a moratorium. 2 Central Bank approval is required for payments for imports of cer- ta in syn the t ic fibers; certain synthetic yarns; all textile machinery and equipment; beef; ships and appurtenances thereto; and steel billets, ingots, hot-rolled coils and sheets, and other steel products listed under Commodity Group 681. 3 Early in 1976, the Central Bank informed agent banks of new procedures for import and export transactions with socialist and com- munist countries (Memorandum to Authorized Agent Banks No. 2 of Janua ry 5, 1976). 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI, or are franchised utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by pro- ducer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrange- ments for such terms of credit are made, impor ts in excess of US$100 (US$500 for books and supplemen- tary readers) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not involving pay- men ts from the Philippines (so-called no-dollar impor ts) are allowed subject to prescribed conditions. Such per- missible no-dollar imports are exempt from the requ ire- ment of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial in s t i tu t ion, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment comm i t- ments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Cen t ral Bank, which w i ll allow the open ing of letters of credit only a f ter a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Furthermore, it is the practice of certain authorized agent banks to require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases.4 Imports into border regions by barter traders are gov- erned by Presidential Decree No. 93. Payments for Invisibles V ir tua l ly all payments to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amoun ts of more than US$100 are sub- stantiated by documentary evidence regarding the pur- pose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits and regulations established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, ma in- tenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see be low ). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by authorized agent banks as follows: ( 1) US$25 a day, up to a max imum of US$750 a t r ip ( for exporters an add i t ional repre- sentation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Afr ica, North and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, the Republic of China, or any other neighboring country. Foreign travel by Philippine citizens, however, is not normally permitted. * On various occasions du r ing 1975, the Bankers' Association granted specified industries either a tempo ra ry or a permanent exemption from the margin deposit requirements. 370 The fo l low ing l im i ts apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad: for studies in the Un i ted States, US$250 a mon th for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tu i t ion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a mon th; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. Any schol- a rsh ip allowances are deducted f rom these amounts. Rem i t tances for educational expenses and student ma in- tenance abroad are allowed only to s tuden ts wo rk ing for a degree at du ly accredited colleges or universities. The fo l low ing l im i ts apply for remittances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a mon th for each dependent l i v i ng in the Un i ted States; US$200 a mon th for each dependent l i v i ng in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a mon th for each dependent l iv ing in other areas. The ma in tenance allowances for depend- ents are allowed only for close relatives under ce r ta in cond i t ions prescribed by the Central Bank. Rem i t tances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) acc ru ing to nonresidents out of net profits realized begin- n ing J anu a ry 1, 1973, are permitted in f u l l, provided that remittances are not financed f rom domestic credit resources. Profits earned and dividends declared before Janua ry 1, 1973 (wh ich had been un rem i t tab le for some t im e) may be remitted over a period of two years. Rem i t tances of royalties or ren ta ls on patents, trade- ma rk s, and copyrights are free ly permitted (net of taxes) for con trac ts registered w i th the Central Bank, provided that ( 1) the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manu fac- tured locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of marketing service contracts), and (2) con- t rac ts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion- p ic ture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds f rom films. Foreign exchange w i th in the above limits may be purchased, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, for current paymen ts for invisibles administratively withheld prior to November 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amoun ts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers require prior authorization f rom the Cen- tral Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines and permanent resident aliens, when traveling abroad, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must pay a travel tax of P 400 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Filipino Muslims making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for indus tr ia l iza t ion and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the fore ign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registra- tion of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central B ank ); reports of foreign sales for copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clear- ance by the Depar tment of Trade. Authorized agent banks must sell to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their exchange receipts f rom export bills.5 As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the pro- ceeds w i ll be unde r taken by an authorized agent b ank; however, payment by means of telegraphic t ran s fe r, check, or mail t ran s fer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No sh ipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds f rom exports must be received in the prescribed currencies w i th in 60 days f rom the date of shipment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equ ipmen t, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of major exports. The rate is 6 per cent for copra and cen tr ifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut oil, dessi- cated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, unmanu fac tu red 5 With effect f rom March 30, 1976 this requ irement was revoked. PHILIPPINES abaca, unmanu fac tu red tobacco, canned pineapples, shrimps and prawns, bunker fuel oil, bananas, cement clinker, por t land cement, and petroleum pitch and residues; and 2 per cent for copper ore and copper concentrates. However, the export taxes on copper ore and copper concentrates and cement are suspended. Cer- ta in trad i t ional export commodities are subject to pre- m ium export duties; those on copper ore, copper concen- trates, and cement are suspended. The Philippine Exchange Company has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with socialist and commun ist countries authorized under Executive Order No. 384 is handled through NETRACOR, with the excep- tion that most exports to the People's Republic of China are hand led by the Philippine International Trading Corporation. Exports to the People's Republic of China require the prior approval of the Department of Trade. Exports f rom border regions by barter traders are governed by Presidential Decree No. 93. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Ph i l ipp ine nationals employed abroad are permit- ted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may re ta in any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earn ings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances by resi- dents or nonresidents of fore ign currencies for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances neither represent current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely trans- ferab le abroad. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Ph i l ipp ine coins. Capital All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain bank ing operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see be low), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. V ir tua l ly all payments and t rans fe rs to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. For the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, export-oriented industries, and other (nonexport-oriented) industries not utilizing domes- tic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatria- tion of cash investments made af ter March 15, 1973 in ( a) export-oriented industries that have been certified by 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES the Central Bank, (b) enterprises registered w i th the BOI, and (c) securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati stock exchanges. M in imum repatriation periods, however, are prescribed; thus, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except investments in domestic commercial banks, which if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: ( 1) export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank —repatriable in fu ll but no annual installment to exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports but not included in ( 1) above —repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of investment, but no annual ins ta l lment to be more than total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) enterprises registered with the BOI, not included in (2) above and not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources —in four equal annu al install- ments starting one year after liquidation of investments; (4) rema in ing industries —repatriation according to the following schedule: US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments after liquidation; US$0.25-0.5 mil- lion, seven equal annual installments after liquidation; and over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments a f ter liquidation. During the period between the date of investments and repatriation, liquidation proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits under Circular No. 343, government securities, or shares of stock in export- oriented industries registered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal in terna t ional trade transac- tions. They may, however, freely accept f rom nonresi- dents of foreign nationality deposits in nine scheduled currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. do l lars); such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 per cent withholding tax. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The maturity may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to US$250,000 (with certain exceptions), not less than 8 years for 372 amounts between US$250,000 and US$500,000, and not less than 12 years for amoun ts greater than US$500,000. For export industries, amounts exceeding US$500,000 are approved if the credit has a maturity of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal; and for amounts less than US$150,000, 3- or 4-year ma tur i t ies may be permitted depending on the amount of credit and the type of export industry. Interest rates may not be more than 1 Vi per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an indus t ry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms which are in arrears with government financial institu- tions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not fall- ing under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. The Management of External Debt and Investment Accounts Department in the Cen- tral Bank ma in ta ins a comprehensive record of credit taken up abroad by the public and private sectors. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5,000, subject to ver if ica t ion by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be w i thdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in fore ign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- trac ts or transactions involving assets within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or cor- poration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to rem it earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay- ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are d i f fe rent arrangements for "pio- neer investments" and "preferred investments"; the fo rmer are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment ," and normally at least 60 per cent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enter- prises in "preferred areas of investment" (ma in ly invest- ments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manufacturing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U.S. citizens, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution corporations, and associations were given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain prior au thor i ty f rom the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philip- pines. If purchases of shares of common stock by for- eign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission f rom the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Indus t ry Assistance Act (Repub l ic Act No. 3089, as amended by Republic Act No. 6364 of August 5, 1971 ), irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production. Exports of gold (as principal produc t) are subject to an export tax of 4 per cent. Pr imary gold producers may sell the ir production, in the form of refined standard bars, to authorized gold dealers of the Central Bank or retain it abroad for their own account for sale either to other authorized gold dealers or in the free market abroad. Purchases by authorized gold dealers f rom pr imary producers are based on current London market prices (as quoted in U.S. dollars, multiplied by the interbank gu id ing rate on the date of sa le ); sales by authorized gold dealers or primary producers in the free market abroad must be settled in "acceptable'' foreign currencies. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized gold dealers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. A gold coin w i th a face value of P 1,000 has been issued which is legal tender. This coin may be imported freely by travelers as well as resident physical or jur id i- cal persons. With this exception, imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1975 January 1. The export tax on copper ore and copper concentrates was reduced f rom 6 per cent to 2 per cent (Executive Order No. 443 of December 26, 1974). January 3. Payments for imports of synthetic yarns and certain synthetic fibers became subject to prior approval by the Central Bank, irrespective of the method of payment (MAAB No. 1 ). Approval became depen- dent on the purchase f rom local producers of specified percentages of total purchases. January 24. Agreements or contracts relating to the rendering of nontrade services by residents to nonresi- PHILIPPINES dents henceforth had to be notified to the Central Bank w i th in five days af ter execution. The foreign currency proceeds were not eligible for deposit under Circular No. 343 (Circular Le t te r ). January 24. All foreign exchange received by agents or branches of foreign shipping or airline companies in the Philippines as advances from their head offices or principals for use in their operations had to be reported to the Central Bank w i th in five days from receipt (Circular Le t te r ). January 24. With exceptions for four specified banks, all authorities previously granted to banks to accept government deposits were withdrawn. As a corollary, no bank or nonbank financial intermediary could, without the prior approval of the Monetary Board, borrow funds f rom the Government or from government-owned or government-controlled corporations (Circular No. 446). February 4. The Central Bank made forward exchange cover available for imports of wheat. Such cover was granted for imports of fertilizer on March 7. February 6. The Central Bank announced that over- seas Filipinos re tu rn ing to the Philippines could avail themselves of the foreign currency deposit scheme under Circular No. 343 and re-export the foreign exchange deposited if they returned to their domicile overseas. February 21. The sale, transfer, or assignment of sugar by any planter, miller, central, or refinery to any other person or entity except the Philippine National Bank or the Philippine Exchange Company was declared illegal (Presidential Decree No. 659). March 21. Exports of copper ore and copper concen- tra tes were freed f rom export tax and premium export du ty (Execu t ive Order No. 450). March 21. Exports of cement were freed f rom export tax and prem ium export duty (Executive Order No. 451). March 21. Banks were prohibited f rom accepting for- eign currency deposits under Circular No. 343 when funded by foreign currency notes or coins offered by any person or firm in the Philippines, including Filipinos re tu rn ing f rom abroad (Circular Le t ter). April 21. The regulations governing remittances of profits and dividends and the repatriation of foreign capital were modified. Cash dividends and proceeds of sale of stock dividends accruing on foreign cash invest- ments in Philippine securities registered pursuant to Circular No. 365 could be reinvested in other Philippine securities listed on domestic stock exchanges and regis- tered under the provisions of that Circular. Pending the reinvestment or repatriation, the monies concerned had to be lodged either with the selling security dealer or in a suspense account w i th an agent bank, at the option of the fore ign investor (MAAB No. 29 ). April 21. All applications for the importation of beef became subject to prior approval by the Central Bank (MAAB No. 30). April 23. Circular No. 401 of April 24, 1974 was amended so that primary gold producers could borrow 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES from authorized gold dealers up to 100 per cent of the value of their refined gold (0.995 fine) shipments used as collateral, subject to the condition that the resulting loans be liquidated not later than 360 days after the date they were granted (Circular No. 463 ). May 20. Until December 31, 1975, all applications for the importation of textile machinery and equipment, irrespective of the method of payment, became subject to prior approval by the Central Bank (MAAB No. 3 1 ). May 22. The Central Bank advised the agent banks of imp lemen t ing guidelines for MAAB No. 30 regarding beef imports (Memorandum Circular). May 27. The parity rights of U.S. citizens with respect to land ownership expired. They had been temporarily extended when the Laurel-Langley Agree- ment w i th the United States expired in 1974. May 30. The Central Bank offered swap facilities to investment houses borrowing abroad to lend the peso counterpart to firms under tak ing priority projects. In these swaps, the exchange rate was guaranteed. June 5. The Na t ional Grain Au thor i ty was given a monopoly over the import of wheat (Presidential Decree No. 726). June 23. All applications for the impor ta t ion of steel billets, ingots, hot-rolled coils or sheets, and other steel products listed under Commodity Group 681 had to be referred to the Central Bank, together with bank- certified statements on imports in 1974 and 1975 of items under that Commodity Group. MAAB No. 6 of February 6, 1975 was revoked (MAAB No. 36 ). June 30. The exemption from import duty for lique- fied petroleum gas was extended to June 1977 (Presi- dential Decree No. 727). July. The "guiding rate" for the peso moved from about P 7.02 to about P 7.60 per US$1. July 21. Subject to certain conditions, direct imports of raw cotton by textile mills were exempted from import duty. Tar iffs on certain other raw materials for textile production were reduced (Presidential Decree No. 750). July 28. Authorized agent banks had to refer to the Central Bank for prior verification all reports of foreign sales and all export declarations (including "no-dollar" export applications) covering locally produced motion- picture films and television films (MAAB No. 46). July 28. Authorized agent banks were instructed not to process exports of sugar-based commodities unless clearance f rom the Department of Trade was submitted in addition to the usual documents (MAAB No. 47). July 28. Imports of unmanu fac tu red tobacco were allowed under the export credit sales program of the U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (MAAB No. 48 ). July 31. Ships with 40 per cent foreign ownership could be registered under Philippine law (Presidential Decree No. 761). August 6. The Secretary of Trade issued guidelines for the exportation of sugar-based commodities. Such 374 exports were subject to clearance by the Department of Trade. The commodities concerned were subsequently specified by the Central Bank in MAAB No. 56 of September 4, which superseded MAAB No. 47 and also required submission of the clearance before any export declaration or permit could be issued. August 14. Imports of textbooks, workbooks, and supplementary readers for elementary grades no longer required prior approval by the Central Bank. Such prior approval was required, however, for imports of maga- zines, reviews, and journa ls (MAAB No. 50). August 22. Any person, firm, company, or corpora- tion could import, and any incoming traveler could bring freely w i th h im, any amount of "New Society" legal tender gold coins issued by the Central Bank (see September 21, below) (Circular No. 478). August 25. A capital gains tax was reimposed on profits f rom transactions in securities. Transactions invo lv ing nonresident foreign nationals as buyers or sellers were exempt (Presidential Decree No. 779). August 25. Presidential Decree No. 782 placed under a single government authority, the Petroleum Board, all activities relating to the discovery, development, and production of indigenous petroleum resources. August 26. When offering Singapore banknotes for sale to the Central Bank, authorized agent banks and foreign exchange dealers were required to certify that these had been purchased from bona fide travelers, up to a l im it of S$ 1,000 for each person (Circular Letter). August 30. The President issued a Letter of Instruc- tions prohibiting the sale of foreign exchange for nones- sential imports f rom countries restricting imports from the Philippines or with which the Philippines had an un favo rab le balance of trade, except where the importers concerned earned the necessary foreign exchange them- selves through exports of goods or services. September 3. Imports of plant, machinery, spare parts, and other equipment used in the manufac ture of sugar were exempted un t il June 30, 1980 from import duty, import tax, and compensating tax. September 21. A legal tender gold coin was issued with a face value of P 1,000. September 24. The Central Bank announced that it was prepared to consider on a case-by-case basis appli- cations for swap transactions when made by investment banks through commercial banks and involving foreign currency f rom nonresident sources deposited in num- bered accounts. The m in imum maturity would be three years and repurchase of the foreign exchange would take place at the rate of exchange prevailing at maturity. The pesos generated could be made available to exporters only. October 8. All applications for the importation of canned mackerel, irrespective of the method of payment, had to be referred to the Central Bank for prior consid- eration (MAAB No. 68 ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 8. Further to MAAB No. 121 of Decem- ber 23, 1974, which had prohibited exports to South Africa, agent banks were instructed not to process any transaction relating to exports to Rhodesia or South Africa (MAAB No. 70). October 20. All applications for the importation and/or purchase of vessels and appurtenances thereto, whether on a cash basis or under foreign credits, and /or requests for release certificates covering "no-dollar" importation of such items, had to be referred to the Central Bank, together with the approval of, or clear- ance f rom, the Maritime Industry Authority (MAAB No. 83). November 19. Margin deposits on import letters of credit were excluded f rom the government deposits sub- ject to the requirements of Circular No. 481 relating to Government deposits to be lodged w i th the Central Bank (Circular No. 488). PHILIPPINES December 15. Undrawn balances of export shipments to Europe, Afr ica, and Latin America with initial draw- ings of less than 100 per cent of the invoice value had to be liquidated w i th in 150 days f rom the date of ship- ment; the corresponding time limit for exports to other destinations was 120 days from shipment. In both cases, proceeds had to be repatriated within 60 days. December 16. Imports allowed to be made by pro- ducer firms under O /A and/or D /A arrangements in accordance w i th Circular No. 347 of July 28, 1972 were limited to commodity items falling under the Essential Producer (EP) Goods category (Circular No. 490). December 16. The normal surrender period for export proceeds was extended from 30 days to 60 days f rom the date of shipment (Circular No. 491). December 19. The prior approval requirement imposed by MAAB No. 31 (see May 20, above), was extended un t il December 31, 1976 (MAAB No. 82 ). 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Hate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo. A central rate of Esc 25.50 = US$ 1 has been established, and Portugal avails itself of wider margins. Since March 19, 1973, however, no announced margins have been observed and all spot transactions between the escudo and foreign currencies take place at fluctuating rates. The parity for the Macao pataca is Esc 5.015 = P 1. On December 31, 1975 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 27.244 and Esc 27.472, respec- tively, per US$1. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commis- sions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange.1 For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars." Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such trans- actions in foreign markets and may be required to jus t ify the amounts of their sales of escudos to non- residents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own ac- count; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquo ted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or non- residents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on their foreign exchange resources and in certain circumstances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal; since Decem- ber 31, 1971, the net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks have been subject to ceilings, and since May 31, 1972 their gross foreign exchange hold- ings have been subject to ceilingL. iThe currencies dealt with in the official exchange market and quoted by the Bank of Portugal are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The only bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Israel. Settlements with Greece and Turkey, however, are also channeled through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. 376 Capital held abroad by residents in the form of for- eign exchange that is not subject to surrender require- ments may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of ex- change. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents other than authorized banks. There is no forward exchange market, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with indi- vidual customers; the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions with the Bank of Portugal. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of For- eign Trade. This Directorate-General also administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulle- tins") are issued by its Foreign Trade Division, or by other executive departments duly authorized. All im- ports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million are subject to prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Committee; this screening is intended only to prevent overinvoicing and under- invoicing. Practically all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1 ), or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Trans- actions with Greece, Israel, and Turkey are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars. Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to prior ap- proval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts The ma in categories of nonresident accounts are described below. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "De- mand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authoriza- tion of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries,3 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,4 (c) purchases or sales of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal against escudos, and (d) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts, requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal and for amounts exceeding Esc 50 million with a ma tur i ty exceeding one year the approval of the Ministry of Finance is also required. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries w i th which Por- tugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrange- ments: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which Portuguese banknotes must be credited which have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to De- mand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos to resi- dents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 25,000. Almost all imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports sub- ject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license (but for imports valued at over Esc 5 million 3 The Bank of Portugal generally authorizes such payments in escudos. * Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned may be required to in fo rm the Bank of Portugal of the nature of the transaction for which escudos are requ ired. Purchases of Portuguese banknotes are subject to special, restrictive rules. PORTUGAL prior authorization must be obtained from the Foreign Trade Control Committee). The validity of the bulletin is normally 180 days, but extensions are often granted. Baggage and imports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 25,000 do not require a bulletin, pro- vided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemp- tion. Payments for imports already cleared through customs require the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made after the validity of the bulletin. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs, other agricultural prod- ucts, certain na tural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberal- ized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authori- zations; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral agreements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- tural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA or EEC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal. Imports of passenger automobiles of EFTA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of non-EFTA origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EEC origin are allowed up to 75 units a year for each producer. Imports of commercial vehi- cles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from EFTA and EEC countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports from other GATT countries are available under special open licenses, subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gen- erally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a year (the equivalent of Esc 13,000 for persons between 12 and 18, and the equivalent of Esc 7,000 for children under 12). For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the author- ized banks may effect freely payments for other current invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may not take out more than Esc 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency up to the amount of their travel allow- ance, and nonresident travelers up to the equivalent of Esc 5,000; however, the latter may take out any larger amount for which proof of prior importation is sub- mitted, subject to deduction of the equivalent of Esc 700 for each day spent in Portugal. The export of higher amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 25,000. Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulle- t ins ). Exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million require prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Com- mittee. Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regu- lations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of mer- chandise whose value does not exceed Esc 25,000 do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign currency indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portu- gal may, however, authorize the deduction of commis- sion expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to surrender. 378 Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments up to Esc 500,000 for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements. Also, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the pay- ments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 1,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins by nonresidents for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portu- gal, and the re-export by nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 5,000 requires proof of prior importation of a larger amount and is subject to deduc- tion of the equivalent of Esc 700 for each day spent in Portugal. Returning residents may also bring in any amount up to Esc 1,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes and coins. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of ex- ternal transactions. Capital All capital movements between Portugal and foreign countries require prior approval by the Bank of Portu- gal; for transactions in excess of Esc 50 million whose ma tur i ty exceeds one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Foreign investments in Portugal by residents of coun- tries that are members of or associated with the Orga- nization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD ), EFTA, IMF, or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) are autho- rized freely if they involve activities that are of recog- nized interest for Portugal's development and provided that no speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital (including de- fense, public utilities, oil refining, and fishing), and no new foreign investment is allowed in defense-related activities, banking and finance, the news media, and the electricity sector. Furthermore, Decree No. 393/70 specifies certain industries in which any domestic or foreign investment is subject to prior authorization. The transfer abroad of the full proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment which originated in a bona fide inward capital movement from member countries of the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD is authorized without restriction. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a maturity of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the underlying commercial or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution service transaction. The acceptance of other foreign credits is normally permitted. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments in foreign countries by residents of Por- tugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indispensable for the national economic development. In practice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or en- largement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portu- guese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD coun- tries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized automatically up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of the case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized on the merits of the case when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of fam i ly loans, bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are usually authorized automatically up to Esc 500,000; for higher amounts, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. For bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of death. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insur- ance policies due from Portuguese insurers are autho- rized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a surrender value. Capital movements and transfers of assets in excess of the limits mentioned, or not enumerated in the pre- ceding paragraphs, or involving countries other than those mentioned above, are authorized on the merits of each case. The net foreign asset positions of authorized banks must not exceed 5 per cent of their current liabilities in domestic currency. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase or sale of coined or un- coined gold, when carried out between metropolitan PORTUGAL Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal when- ever a resident of metropolitan Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Import authorizations for industrial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Associa- tion of Industrial Users of Gold. Domestic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transaction tax of 20 per cent.5 There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1975 January 1. Further tariff reductions on industrial goods took place under the free trade agreement with the EEC. January 22. Executive Order No. 42/75 provided that the conversion of domestic banknotes into foreign currency was to be centralized in the Bank of Portugal. January 25. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic expired; settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. February 2. Resident travelers were prohibited from taking credit cards out of the country. February 18. A ministerial decision provided that all import contracts for raw cotton had to be submitted to the Institute of Textiles for approval within ten days of signing. February 20. A government program was published providing for majority state participation in specified industries. Foreign investment in Portugal would be encouraged, but new foreign investment would not be allowed in defense-related activities, banking and finance, the news media, or the electricity sector, and restrictions would be imposed on remittances of profits and divi- dends (see also December 22, below). March 14. Decree-Law No. 132-A/75 nationalized all private banks, except branches of foreign banks, and Decree-Law No. 135-A/75 nationalized, with some exceptions, all insurance companies. March 19. The Spanish peseta was added to the list of currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal. April 16. Certain large enterprises were nationalized and the intention to nationalize certain others was 5 In January 1976 all private dealing in gold by exchange houses was suspended. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL announced. The main additional measures were taken on August 9. April 19. By virtue of Decree-Law No. 211/75, the ownership of Portuguese securities could no longer be transferred unless they were registered as nominative certificates. May 16. Portugal informed the GATT tha t, with effect from December 31, 1974, it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV -of the General Agreement in respect of India. May 29. Portugal announced that it was unable to sign the renewal for one year of the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Transactions. May 31. Decree-Law No. 271-A/75 introduced an import surcharge, to be effective un t il December 31, 1975, at the rate of 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the customs value on a wide range of goods, irrespective of origin. Imports of petroleum and most foods tu f fs were exempt. June 11. The travel allowance of Esc 20,000 estab- lished in September 1974 became applicable a person a year, instead of a person a trip. Executive Order No. 359/75 established new limits on the export by residents temporarily leaving the coun- try of foreign notes and coins, other foreign means of payment, and Portuguese notes and coins. These were ( 1) Esc 2,500 a person for domestic notes and coins; (2) Esc 6,000 a person over 18 years of age for for- eign currency, when no more than three days elapse between the exit and entry into the coun t ry; and ( 3) Esc 20,000 a person over 18 years of age when more than three days elapse between the exit and entry into the country; this limit could not be exceeded du r ing a period of one year counting f rom the first crossing of the border, whether it was used all at once or in por- tions. For persons under 18, the limits mentioned were reduced to two thirds for those over 12 and one third for those under 12 years of age. Nonresident foreign nationals leaving Portugal could not take out more than the equivalent of Esc 30,000, unless they could show they had previously imported a larger amoun t. July 1. Following the expiration on June 30 of the bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia, settle- ments with that country were placed on a convertible basis. August 6. The Bank of Portugal announced that for- eign banks wishing to have escudo banknotes credited to them in convertible escudo accounts must prove that the notes were received from Portuguese residents travel- ing abroad, by providing the names, passport numbers, and amounts purchased in each transaction; crediting was restricted to Esc 2,500 for each individual traveler. All other escudo notes were credited to foreign banks in special escudo accounts that could be used only for payments to residents and subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. October 25. Executive Order No. 619/75 changed the tourist allocation for residents to Esc 21,000, of which Esc 1,000 could be taken out in domestic cur- rency. Nonresident foreigners leaving Portugal were limited to Esc 1,000 in domestic currency notes, and, ex- cept where proof of prior importation of larger amounts could be supplied, to the equivalent of Esc 5,000 in foreign exchange; Esc 700 for each day spent in Portu- gal would be deducted to determine the amount of foreign exchange they could take out. October 25. The amount of domestic banknotes that resident and nonresident travelers could bring in, pre- viously unlimited, was reduced to Esc 1,000 a person. October 25. Emigrants were made subject to the standard tourist allocation unless they could prove that they had imported a larger amount of foreign exchange w i th in a 30-day period prior to their departure. Pre- viously, the emigration allowance was Esc 100,000 a year a fam i ly unit (Esc 500,000 a year a family for fore ign na t iona ls ). November 15. A new central banking law, Decree- Law No. 644/75 of November 15, came into force. It increased the powers of the Bank of Portugal, which, however, could no longer engage in transactions with the public. December 17. Decree-Law No. 701-F amended the lists of commodities subject to the temporary import surcharge. Certain items on List I were exempted from the surcharge. Some exempt items were added to List I or List II. Certain other items were transferred from List II to List I. December 22. It was announced that a new foreign investment law had been draf ted. By the end of 1975, the law had not been given final approval. December 22. Decree-Law No. 729-H/75 provided for the opening of Emigrant Deposit Accounts denomi- nated in foreign currency with Portuguese credit institu- tions. These accounts could only be held by Portuguese emigrants who had been resident abroad for more than six months. Implementing regulations were issued on February 27 and March 12, 1976. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System l The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Qatar Riyal. The currency is pegged to the SDR and Qatar avails itself of wider margins. The Qatar Mone- tary Agency buys and sells sterling at no more than V2 of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate for sterling, which is determined on the basis of the sterling/SDR rate. The commercial banks' exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on Qatar's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against sterling. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation in Qatar. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Qatar has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cur- rent U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammu- nition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for rea- sons of health, morals, or security. Otherwise, imports into Qatar are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be 1With effect from January 15, 1976, Qatar maintained exchange rates for the Qatar riyal within marg ins somewhat wider than 2V4 per cent but not exceeding IV* per cent. repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Otherwise there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, although payments must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. For- eign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1975 March 19. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The exchange rate for the Qatar riyal would be maintained on the basis of QR 4.76190 = SDR 1, and Qatar continued to avail itself of wider margins of up to 2V* per cent. The authorities would establish daily buying and selling rates on this basis for sterling, the intervention currency. Previously, the parity for the U.S. dollar had been QR 3.94737 = US$1. October 18. Qatar began to set the daily middle rate for the riyal against sterling at approximately the upper limit of the 21A per cent margin. October 18. The Qatar Monetary Agency advised commercial banks that it would establish daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in addition to ster- ling, and that its spread around the middle rate would be l/2 of 1 per cent instead of the previous 1 per cent. The Agency also instructed banks to maintain a spread of 1 per cent in their buying and selling transactions with the public; previously, these spreads had been 2 per cent or more. November 20. The ban on trade with Portugal was lifted. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Romanian Leu has been estab- lished with the Fund. The leu is officially defined as equivalent to 0.148112 gram of fine gold, yielding official rates as at December 31, 1975 of lei 4.97 per U.S. dol- lar and lei 6.67 per ruble. There is no exchange market. The National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Romania quotes official rates also for certain other currencies. Quotations for the 16 currencies defined as "freely con- vertible" l (except those for the U.S. dollar itself) and for the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Spanish peseta, and the Yugoslav dinar are based on their rates against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned; for the U.S. dollar and for inconvertible currencies, exchange rates are based either on the gold content against the leu or on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, nontrade transactions with countries other than the socialist countries listed in footnote 2 are car- ried out at the official rate plus a premium of 141.45 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12.00 per US$1; the sale of exchange at this rate to Romanian citizens for private use is subject to an additional service charge. Some trade transactions are subject to a price, equali- zation system. Excluded from this system are imports of machinery and equipment, complex equipment, assem- blies and sub-assemblies, and spare parts, the domestic delivery prices of which are determined by converting the foreign price into lei at a customs valuation coeffi- cient, to which customs duties are added. For consumer goods a similar calculation is made; their domestic prices are fixed, and any difference between these prices and those resulting from the calculation is reflected in the profits of the importing enterprise. For all other imports (basic raw materials and certain other less important production goods) and for all exports, the price equali- zation system applies. The equalization system is designed to eliminate the effect on the earnings of export- ers and importers of the differences between domestic prices and foreign prices converted into lei at a uniform settlement coefficient of lei 20 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist coun- tries 2 exchange rates are established by special agree- ments; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per ruble. An accounting rate of lei 20 per U.S. dollar is used for the payment and repayment of 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, D.R. of Ger- many, Hungary, P.R. of China, Mongolia, D.P.R. of Korea, D.R. of Viet-Nam, Poland, and U.S.S.R. 382 foreign loans taken up or granted by the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, other official bodies, and Romanian enterprises. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial cen- trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Foreign trade units have autonomy in selecting their foreign partners and operate on a trade criteria basis, taking into account prices, quality, delivery and payment conditions, etc. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, both the provisions of existing trade agreements and criteria of economic effi- ciency are taken into account. Foreign currency pro- ceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that Bank. Exchange con- trol is administered by the National Bank and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency . Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted for- eign payments may not be made in lei, and the import and export in any form of Romanian notes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the National Bank. Neither justification nor authorization is required to open such accounts, except for foreign economic organizations and agencies, which have to show evidence of permission to operate in Romania. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, gold, or other precious metals (except silver); B-Accounts are maintained in noncon- vertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion 3 The countries with which bilateral payments arrangements were in force as of December 31, 1975 were listed as Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Ghana, Greece, India, Iran, D.P.R. of Korea, Lebanon, Mali, and D.R. of Viet-Nam. (The bilateral payments arrangement with Algeria expired on December 31, 1975 and with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1976, settlements with that country were made in convertible currencies.) Settlements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, D.R. of Ger- many, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. took place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Furthermore, certain settlements with Singa- pore also took place through special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the curren- cies from which the funds were derived and for pay- ments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permit- ted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts with the Savings and Consignment Bank. In addition, any bank may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus premium (lei 12 per U.S. dollar). Receipts from abroad for special pur- poses for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and educa- tion) are entirely paid out in foreign currency. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as donations, assistance, or fam i ly mainte- nance, a proportion may be deposited in a foreign cur- rency account and the rest must be converted at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level, in accordance with the priority interests for the development of the national economy. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, producing enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. After their elaboration, the plans are correlated and integrated into the single national plan, which is a synthesis of the effective production and export possibilities and of the needs for imported goods. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The major part of the plan is set forth as a lump sum, without being divided by importer or exporter countries but only distinguishing, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts, between the clearing area and the convertible currency area. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of For- eign Trade and International Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authori- ROMANIA zations are not restrictive or discriminatory and are issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of the public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enter- prises as a lump sum, or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral payments agreements, and in the latter case the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given either by the Ministry of Finance or the competent ministry. For most categories of pay- ments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei in amounts the equivalent of which may exceed the maximum allocations of for- eign exchange. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12.00 per US$1. Travelers with perma- nent residence in nonsocialist countries, Cuba, or Yugo- slavia must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies) during their stay in Romania. Foreign diplomats and tourists may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in COMTURIST shops, against pay- ment in currencies of nonsocialist countries. The import and export of Romanian notes and coins by travelers is prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Out- ward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain estab- lished categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 1 of March 1971) provides for the possibility of the establishment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations; under this law and enabling Decrees 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA Nos. 424 and 425 of 1972, foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in jo int ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company con- cerned. The law and the decrees guarantee the repatria- tion in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Foreign physical and juridical persons may keep in bank accounts in Romania their legally owned foreign currency or lei funds; balances in foreign exchange accounts are transferable abroad. Romanian nationals working abroad may hold their foreign currency savings in accounts opened with Romanian banks and use these funds for payments in Romania or abroad (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Only the National Bank has authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions, in accord- ance with the law. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1975 January 1. The application of the customs tar iff on imports, which had come into force on January 1, 1974 on an experimental basis for one year, was extended for another year. January 1. The April 1974 suspension of import duties on raw materials and primary products was extended for another year. The application of the equalization system to import payments for basic raw materials and certain other less important production goods was also extended. January 1. Exporting enterprises were no longer entitled to an incentive in respect of surplus earnings of foreign exchange. January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreements with the Syrian Arab Republic and Yugoslavia, settlements with these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 9. The bilateral payments agreement with Sri Lanka expired. January 20. Decision No. 1771 of December 1974 of the Council of Ministers was published. It provided that activities pertaining to foreign trade and interna- tional economic cooperation could be carried out directly by 41 specialized foreign trade enterprises (34 under the authority of the economic ministries and 7 under that of the industrial cen tra ls), and by the export and import bureaus of the ministries or centrals concerned. Each manu fac tu r ing enterprise would be directly responsible for its own foreign trade activities, even where these were carried out through the industrial centrals or the specialized foreign trade enterprises. February 1. Romanian citizens working abroad were obliged to convert into lei an increased proportion of any earnings in convertible currencies. April 2. A most-favored-nation agreement with the United States was signed; it came into force on August 3. October 2. The bilateral payments agreement with Guinea expired. October 11. Decree No. 922 was published, which created a new organization, named Delta, for interna- tional trade and international economic cooperation. December 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Pakistan expired. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Algeria expired. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc. The central rate is RF 112 = SDR 1, and Rwanda avails itself of wider margins. The National Bank of Rwanda ( the central b ank) has established a middle rate of RF 92.84 = US$1 and quotes indicative rates for certain other currencies.1 The National Bank levies a fee (droit de dossier) for the validation of import and export licenses as well as transfer authorizations; the fee is RF 350 for import and export licenses or 2 per cent of the amount approved for transfers other than import payments. Payments by the Government and public sector agencies are exempt. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Na t ional Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, to be determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Governor of the Na t ional Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Zai're are made through special accounts. Otherwise, the following applies. The U.S. dollar may be used for all payments and receipts, w i th the exception that payments to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tan- zania, and Uganda must be made in the currency of the country concerned. The Belgian f ranc may be used for all transactions with any European country. Paymen ts from any country may be received in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars; in addi- tion, proceeds from exports to Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda may be received in the currency of the coun try concerned. All foreign payments, except in border trade, must be made by bank transfer. Exchange transactions with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as nar- cotics, are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of public policy. All imports except baggage and house- hold effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 50,000 (when settled in Rwanda f r an c s) require licenses if payment is to take place in foreign exchange; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National 1 Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f ranc s, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zaires. Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Model I ). The approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. The Na t ional Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are examined at the National Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoicing and to ensure that importers (unless exceptionally authorized to do so) do not have recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payments or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that pay- ments are made to the supplier country. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clear- ance fo rm, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs authorities. In practice, certain goods are imported ma in ly or exclusively from the Peo- ple's Republic of China. In principle, payments for imports cannot be made prior to customs clearance and must be made within the validity period of the license; however, importers are authorized to pay by means of documentary credits upon shipment if their books are kept in accordance with the accounting rules of the Common Organization of A f r i- can and Maur i t ian States. All imports are subject to a license validation fee (droit de dossier), which is RF 350 a license for most goods and 1 per cent of the value c.i.f. Kigali of the license, with a m in imum of RF 350 and a maximum of RF 5,000, for specified luxury items (Group B). Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages —after income tax and social security contribu- tions and af ter deduction of 40 per cent of net income or RF 35,000 a month, whichever is higher —of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports and exports cannot be made un t il imported goods have been cleared through customs or after the exchange proceeds f rom exports have been surrendered. Net profits and divi- dends due to nonresidents may in principle be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may not transfer their net income from rents, except upon their final departure. Residents may freely purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs, with the exception that the prior approval of the National Bank may be required when certain travel by persons of foreign nationality is involved. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank- notes declared upon entry minus the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 50,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Model E ). Declarations for all exports must be pre- sented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certification. A declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to deter- mine the conditions for certification. For exports to Bu rund i, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for minerals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting f rom services per- formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guar- antees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capi- tal inflows rema in ing in Rwanda for at least two months; such inflows result ma in ly from swap transactions between Rwandese banks and their foreign correspond- ents. Commercial banks are not permitted to import or export domestic banknotes. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1975 January 1. The amount up to which imports and exports are exempt f rom license or prior declaration was increased from RF 20,000 to RF 50,000. April 30. The ban on trade and settlements with Portugal and its overseas territories was lifted. May 5. An import deposit requirement of 100 per cent of the customs value was introduced. Deposits would be released three months after customs clearance. The requirement was revoked on November 17. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 37 ,1975) Exchange Rate System On August 11, 1973, Saudi Arabia established a par value of 0.207510 gram of fine gold per Saudi Ara- bian Riyal, corresponding at the time to SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1 or SRls 3.55001 = US$1. Saudi Arabia avails itself of wider margins. Since March 15, 1975 Saudi Arabia has maintained exchange rates for the riyal on the basis of the parity of SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1; since September 9, 1975 rates have been permitted w i th in margins somewhat wider than 21A per cent but not exceeding 11A per cent. On December 31, 1975, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.53; it sold U.S. dol- lars to banks at SRls 3.535 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.525 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to V* of 1 per cent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of cer- tain imported items benefiting from government sub- sidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of Feb- ruary 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, inc lud ing private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1975 January 12. The ban on settlements with Portugal was lifted. March 15. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar tq the SDR. Exchange rates for the Saudi Ara- bian riyal henceforth were maintained on the basis of its existing parity in terms of the SDR, i.e., SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. Saudi Arabia continued to avail itself of wider margins of 214 per cent. Previously, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency had observed a dollar/riyal parity of SRls 3.550 per U.S. dollar. As a result of the change, the currency was appreciated in terms of the U.S. dollar; the initial middle rate set was SRls 3.470 = US$1. May 23. Foreign nationals ceased to be subject to individual income tax. September 9. While continuing to maintain exchange rates for the riyal on the basis of SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1, the mone tary authorities henceforth permitted rates w i th in margins somewhat wider than 2V* per cent but not exceeding 714 per cent. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 57, 7975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of its currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of %o of 1 per mill for transfers to other countries of the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign cur- rencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Sene- gal's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Cen- tral African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these coun- tries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been dele- gated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adminis- tration, and notaries public, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of Foreign Trade), including those for 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 388 gold. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements with Guinea are made through bilateral accounts established under a payments agree- ment. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank- notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by authorized banks' foreign correspondents; such bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts opened by the latter with authorized banks in Senegal. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Rhodesian and South A f r ican origin and /or provenance are prohibited f rom any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West African Customs Union. The import f rom any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area other than Mali are generally free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Minis- try of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Imports of vir- tually all goods f rom EEC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods f rom all former OEEC countries, the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restrictions; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agri- cultural producers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000 (c.i.f. or delivered at the border). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lad ing ). Furthermore, payments for imports valued at CFAF 500,000 or less (but over CFAF 15,000) cannot be made prior to cus- toms clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Furthermore, autho- rized banks have been empowered to effect freely any payment abroad up to CFAF 15,000 on behalf of resi- dents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000 a year for each person (CFAF 75,000 for children under ten ); any foreign exchange rema in ing after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for additional amounts of for- eign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 7,500 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 may be taken out in for- eign notes. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period; however, for Maur i tan ian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on fam i ly status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are transfer- able in fu l l. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 15,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Mone- SENEGAL tary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus the amount converted in Senegal plus any amount up to CFAF 50,000 reconverted by purchase of foreign banknotes), or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000; other banknotes as stated above; and any means of payment, such as travelers checks, established abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate sup- plies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. They must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one month after collection when received in a non-Franc Area currency. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Sene- gal; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West Afri- can Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Eco- nomic Affairs.2 Foreign direct investments in Senegal3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Eco- nomic Affa irs before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offer- ing, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Eco- nomic Affairs. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount outstanding 2 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in Senegal. 3 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 390 of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. The Investment Code of June 12, 1972 (Law No. 72-43) provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Law No. 74-6 of April 22, 1974 provides special facilities for export industries established in the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By vir- tue of Ordinance No. 60-21 of October 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree No. 65-794 of Novem- ber 19, 1965). Furthermore, imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Office for Handi- crafts (Office Senegalais de PArtisanat) and the Direc- torate of Mines and Geology (Notice to Importers of May 17, 1971). Changes during 1975 January 8. Decree No. 75-044 empowered the Min- ister of Finance and Economic Affairs to conclude .on behalf of the Government a loan agreement for US$8.5 million with the Iranian Government. February 8. The prohibition on settlements and trade with Portugal was terminated by Decrees Nos. 75-095, 75-096, and 75-097. June 3. Decrees Nos. 75-563 and 75-564 made imports of various types of bicycles, tractors, and auto- mobiles subject to prior import authorization, irrespec- tive of origin. July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement. The parity between the CFA franc and the French franc remained un- changed. December 29. Senegal informed the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agreement in respect of Japan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone. With effect from June 27, 1972, however, the leone was allowed to float with sterling. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals in sterling only and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0.50, subject to a max imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the cur- rent London market rates. On December 31, 1975, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.01675 and US$1.00675, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Transactions with Sterling Area countries as well as non-Sterling Area countries are subject to exchange control. Sierra Leone's regulations define the Sterling Area so as to include Sierra Leone and to exclude South Africa. Settlements with other Sterling Area countries usually are made in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilat- eral payments agreement.1 Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than the Peo- ple's Republic of China and Rhodesia, including pay- ments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United King- dom, or in any other foreign currency2 except Rhode- sian currency. Receipts from exports to non-Sterling Area countries other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an Exter- nal Account in the United Kingdom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified 1A payments agreement concluded with Guinea in 1964 is inoperative. 8 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the leone. currency3 other than a currency of the Sterling Area. Receipts from exports to Sterling Area countries may be obtained in leones from a Sterling Area Account or in any currency of the Sterling Area other than leones. Settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia may be desig- nated External Accounts. Residents of Sterling Area countries may ma in ta in Sterling Area Accounts denomi- nated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With minor exceptions, all commodities from any source require individual import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Rice Corporation. Foreign exchange is granted for all permit- ted imports, but not for insurance on imported goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require approval, which for most current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited in principle to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of net annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the transfer of higher amounts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allow- ance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities sold to certain destina- tions, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 3) of exports other than diamonds to countries outside the Sterling Area must be transferred to Sierra Leone within a month of receipt and sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. By virtue of Government Notice No. 57 of November 14, 1974, the proceeds from exports of diamonds and all other minerals must be obtained in the currency of the import- ing country or in any specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country. The buying and exporting of diamonds is car- ried out by five locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may br ing in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 per traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ- ated outside Sierra Leone. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained in i t ia l ly for the invest- ment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and t rans fer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis- sion if either the person acqu ir ing the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident out- side Sierra Leone, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agricul- tural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. By virtue of Public Notice No. 50 of October 11, 1974, residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an autho- rized dealer in Sierra Leone their holdings of gold and 392 specified currency. Exemption is made for authorized dealers, diplomats, and those exempt sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the Sterling Area and any income therefrom may be retained in the Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securi- ties. Any certificate of security purchased with the pro- ceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, pro- vided exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num isma t ic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents have been directed to declare and make available to the Government all gold held in the form of bars or coins. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and plati- num content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1975 January 1. The Exchange Control (Diamond and Other Mineral Export Payments) Order, 1974 (Govern- ment Notice No. 57) came into effect. It required the proceeds of the sale of diamonds or any other minerals mined in and exported from Sierra Leone to be received by the sellers in the currency of the importing country or any other specified currency through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country, notified to them by the Bank of Sierra Leone. January 29. The Foreign Exchange Budget Advisory Committee recommended that ceilings be introduced on the issue of import licenses for motor vehicles. These were 50 per cent of the number imported in 1974 for private passenger automobiles and 75 per cent of the number imported in 1974 for all other vehicles. March 20. Government Notice No. 271 amended Notice No. 929 containing the open general import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE license for 1975, by adding various items to the list of goods requiring specific import licenses (the "negative" list); these items included footwear, fish, soft drinks, paints, detergents, beer, cigarettes, furniture, and carpets. April 20. Government Notice No. 318 containing amendments to Notice No. 271 added fur ther items to the list of goods requiring specific import licenses. May 29. Government Notice No. 534 amended Notice No. 271 by deleting certain footwear from the list of items requiring specific import licenses. June 20. All import letters of credit valued at Le 20,000 or more required the prior approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone. October 16. Government Notice No. 1044 announced the issue of a commemorative gold coin with a face value of Le 10. November 3. General Import License No. 1 of 1975 was revoked. All goods henceforth required specific import licenses; there were exceptions for imports by private individuals, educational institutions, etc. December 11. Government Notices Nos. 1309 and 1310 provided new lists of items requiring specific import licenses and items falling under the open general license contained in Notice No. 1310. These Notices were amended with respect to their country coverage on December 17. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar, and Singapore avails itself of wider margins. Since June 20, 1973, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate within announced mar- gins. The closing selling and buying rates in the Singa- port foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were S$2.4900 and S$2.4890 per US$1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. The authorized banks are free to deal spot and for- ward in all currencies. Forward cover for periods in excess of six months in respect of import or export transactions requires the prior approval of the Mone- tary Au thor i ty of Singapore, as does all forward cover on transactions of residents in the Asian currency market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in the two countries concerned, at the commercial banks and with the monetary authorities. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Authority of Singapore administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Singapore has made no changes in the list of Scheduled Territories (covering Singapore and all other Sterling Area territories) which appears in the first schedule to the Singapore Exchange Control Act.1 All payments to and from the Scheduled Territories may be made in either a Scheduled Territory currency or a specified currency.2 Certain payments to Romania must be made through special accounts. Payments to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an Exter- nal Account, or in any non-Scheduled Territory currency effect from February 4, 1976 Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand were included in the Scheduled Territories. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 394 other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia must be obtained in either Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any specified cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non- Scheduled Territory currency, other than Rhodesian currency, sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Scheduled Territory currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in Rhodesia, South Africa, or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding bran) and refined sugar, irrespective of origin; (2) textile fabrics, when originating in Japan; and (3) all goods originating in, wholly or mainly manufactured in, or consigned from Albania, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Mon^ golian People's Republic, and North Viet-Nam. License applications for goods under (3) must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments of a current nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution also permitted freely. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either w i thout limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Au thor i ty of Singapore, provided that no unau thor ized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equ iva lent to S$ 10,000 a person a year for travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application. Remittances to nonresidents of divi- dends, interest, and agreed prof i ts on all bona fide invest- ments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of S$2,000 in foreign currency notes and Scheduled Territory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and B run e i) may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei cur- rency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Travelers v i s i t ing Singa- pore may take out any amount of fo re ign currency notes and Scheduled Territory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and Brune i) that was declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the Un i ted Kingdom, and the United States are subject to quantitative restric- tion. Exports of scrap metal, rice, and a few other items are restricted. Other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Act and are sold to an authorized bank, normally w i th in six months of shipment. Export proceeds up to S$3 mil- lion for each recipient in specified currencies may, however, be retained and may be used to make com- mercial current payments and any other approved pay- ments to residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds, including the facility for the reten- tion and use of up to S$3 million in specified currencies for each recipient. Travelers coming direct f rom Brunei SINGAPORE or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and cur- rency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, and other travel- ers may bring in such currency notes up to the equiva- lent of S$ 1,000; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei cur- rency notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital 8 There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Scheduled Territories. Capi- tal transfers f rom Singapore to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control approval. Inward transfers of capital f rom such countries (with the exception of borrowing in non-Scheduled Territory currencies) do not require approval and the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes also is exempt from individual exchange control approval; however, government approval is required for investment in most residential property and in any vacant land other than land already designated prior to September 11, 1973 for industrial or commercial use. Investment by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia in Singapore stocks and bonds, whether quoted or not, is freely permitted in any currency, including Singapore dollars f rom an External Account. Proceeds from sales of Singapore securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories; the approval authority for such transfers has been delegated to authorized banks. Borrowing from local banks by nonresident-controlled companies is not restricted. Investments by Singapore residents in countries out- side the Scheduled Territories normally may be made on ly upon approval of the exchange control authorities; however, residents are permitted to invest without limit in certain prescribed external bonds, and up to certain prescribed limits in securities denominated in specified currencies or in deposits in specified currencies with authorized banks or with Asian Currency Units. The exchange allowance for cash gifts and personal loans by individuals is S$30,000 a remitter a calendar year. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in specified currencies and Scheduled Territory currency f rom an External Account from nonresidents of Singa- pore; banks require individual exchange control approval for corresponding borrowing or lending transactions with residents of Singapore. All transactions must be 3 With effect f rom February 4, 1976, the remaining restrictions on capital outflows to non-Scheduled Territories were fu r ther relaxed. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE conducted over accounts held in the Asian Currency Units of the banks concerned. Borrowing in the Asian dollar market by resident exporters to finance out- standing export bills is in practice unrestricted. The spot and forward foreign exchange positions of banks are supervised by the Monetary Au thor i ty. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access; settlements between residents and nonresidents must take place in a Scheduled Territory currency to an External Account or in any foreign currency, wh i le receipts f rom nonresi- dents may be accepted in any currency or against debit to an External Account. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. A S$150 commemorative gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, is legal tender; this coin is treated for exchange control purposes as gold rather than local currency and its export and import is dealt with in the same way as that of gold. The price of gold used for the m anu f a c tu re of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1975, this price was about S$500 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$460 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1975 January 1. The bilateral payments arrangements with Poland and the U.S.S.R. were terminated. January 10. Restrictions on the purchase by nonresi- dents of residential property in Singapore were eased by the revocation of the approval requirement for resi- dential flats or apartments in buildings of not less than six stories. March 1. The Finance Minister announced that the Government had agreed in principle to the introduction of an export credit insurance scheme. March 29. The Monetary Authority authorized selected banks to issue negotiable certificates of deposit expressed in Singapore dollars from May 1. The first issue took place on May 2. May 1. The Monetary Authority offered rediscount facilities for certain export and pre-export usance bills. Additional types of export bills became eligible on October 22, including those to finance exports of pri- mary products. May 22. The Monetary Authority reduced its redis- count rate for export and pre-export usance bills. June 9. Residents of Singapore were permitted to invest w i thout limit in certain prescribed external bonds. These were three types of bonds of Singapore issuers. Two other external Singapore bonds were added in August 1975 and Janua ry 1976. June 13. Refined sugar became subject to import licensing. June 17. The first bond issue on the Asian currency market since December 1973 took place. July 15. Banks were permitted to set their own inter- est rates on advances and deposits. The Monetary Au thor i ty again reduced the rediscount rate for export and pre-export bills. July 21. Henceforth, the S$150 gold coin (as well as any gold coins of other denominations issued by Singa- pore in the f u t u r e) were to be treated as gold and could be dealt with in the same way as gold; previously, the S$ 150 gold coin was treated as local currency and could be imported and exported in the same way as Singapore currency notes. July 21. The Monetary Authority delegated to author- ized banks the power to approve all applications to pay for imports of gold and to open or advise letters of credit in respect of gold. November 7. Certain weighing and measuring instru- ments ceased to be subject to import control. December 9. It was announced that the European Investment Bank would float a bond issue on the Asian currency market. The issue took place on January 7, 1976. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118193 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling, and Somalia avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in some of the "convertible" cur- rencies * with authorized dealers at fixed rates, tak ing into consideration those in leading exchange markets in Europe; on December 31, 1975, the Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, unchanged since 1973. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (including banking commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the princi- pal government agency concerned with the implementa- tion and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish list of "convertible" currencies,1 and a to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The sole commercial bank has been appointed as authorized exchange dealer. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Indus try and Com- merce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Industry and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulations and control of foreign eco- nomic transactions. The Na t ional and Local Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce, the M in is try of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisi- bles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments, as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968 and Law No. 17 of June 15, 1968. 1 The "convertible" currencies are listed as D j ibou ti f rancs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with Egypt must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for impor ts f rom Egypt and all pay- men ts for invisibles to Egypt other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor bal- ance resulting f rom the terminated payments agreement with that country; other payments normally are chan- neled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements w i th all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see foot- note 1 ); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements w i th Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "con- vertible" currencies may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad and der iv ing income only f rom sources outside Somalia; for- eign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplo- matic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (includ- ing export proceeds) f rom sources within Somalia; and by other physical or jur id ical persons individually authorized by the Central Bank to ma in ta in a nonresi- dent account. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The impo rt of a few commodities from all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons.2 Ind iv idual licenses are required for all other commodi- ties. Some of these commodities may be imported only f rom specified sources.3 Certain other commodities are liberalized when or ig ina t ing in EEC countries. The state trad ing organization, the National Agency for Trade (En te Naz iona le per il Comercio or ENC ), is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fa ts, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, cement, and certain other commodities; some are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, 2 Bu t ter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made cloth- ing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 3 The permitted origin varies from commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply generally are Egypt and /or the U.S.S.R. Made-up articles and related products may be imported only when or ig ina t ing in A f r i c an or A rab countries, member countries of the EEC, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, North Korea, or U.S.S.R. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton cloth). The Somali Petroleum Agency is the sole importer of fuel and fuel products, batteries, and rubber tubes and tires. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of con- struction materials. Certain other commodities also are imported by state agencies only. If goods imported d i f fer in weight, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and in terna t ional orga- nizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, e tc .). Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transac- tion meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of payment) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not per- mitted. Payments for imports from neighboring areas 4 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are nor- mally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. For tourist travel by residents, there is an allowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out w i thout authoriza- tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up 4 Aden, Djibouti, Mukalla, Ethiopia, and Kenya. 398 to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marketing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export pro- ceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance pay- ment deposit of 50 per cent of the value of livestock exports and 15 per cent of the value of other exports is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the author- ized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Central Bank may grant exemptions from the sur- render requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travel- ers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March and June 1968). In accordance with the provi- sions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irriga- tion, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and mineral exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption to any enterprise f rom import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. For investments regis- tered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of resi- dent employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal SOMALIA tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Central Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 karats within one month. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EEC countries and are subject to a 10 per cent duty when of other origin. Changes during 1975 March. The two existing commercial banks were merged into one. October 21. Trading in footwear, textiles, domestic appliances, automobiles (including spare pa r ts ), agricul- tural implements, irrigation pumps, industrial machinery, and office equipment was nationalized. Subsequently, a new state agency was established to act as importer and distributor of these goods. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per South A f r ican Rand. On June 24, 1974 South A f r ica began an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating, but since June 27, 1975 a policy has been followed of keeping the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar constant for longer periods at a time. As at Decem- ber 31, 1975 the South A f r ican Reserve Bank quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1. Exchange rates are based on the Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. The commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were US$1.1529 buying, and US$1.1471 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain l im i ta t ions, authorized dealers are per- mitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers at a charge of 1 per cent per annum, for import transactions and for foreign loans raised in their own names. South Afr ica fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as form ing, with the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Afr ica has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area constitute 400 the Nonresident Area.1 Settlements within the Rand Monetary Area take place in rand only.2 Swazi bank- notes and coins are convertible into rand at par without restriction, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Settlements w i th residents of the Nonresident Area, except Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any specified currency 3 and, for outgoing payments only, in any other foreign cur- rency.4 Settlements with Rhodesia may be made in rand to and f rom a local Rhodesian or other nonresident account, in Rhodesian currency and, for inward pay- ments only, in any specified currency. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Monetary Area are divided into Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts (but see December 4 entry under section on Changes during 1975, below). Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Afr ica of Rhodesian currency and of any specified cur- rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South Afr ican residents, for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Rhodesia and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all authorized pay- ments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments f rom other Nonresident 1 In the application of the Securities Control Notices, however, the Nonresident Area comprises all countries outside South Africa, and thus includes Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Correspondingly, there are two definitions of resident status for exchange control purposes. 2 In September 1974 Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni (p lu ral ema langen i ), to replace the rand. Lilangeni banknotes are f ree ly convertible into rand, at par, at the Monetary Au thor i ty of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for payment in South A f r i c a, Botswana, and Lesotho must be denominated in rand. 3 Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy f rancs, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zaires, and Zamb ian kwacha. 4 Foreign currency is any currency other than currency that is legal tender in South Afr ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident or Rhodesian Account or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica for short periods. Blocked Accounts are held by nonresidents of South Africa and are subject to exchange control restrictions.5 They represent mainly the proceeds from sales of South African securities by a nonresident of South Africa to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from Soufh Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an author- ized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South A f r ica, or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in govern- ment, municipal, or public utility bonds, but not the national savings certificate series issued from October 1, 1974, the proceeds on redemption at maturity are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents of South Africa only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable at face value. The redemption proceeds are transferable in the foreign cur- rency of the monetary area in which the holder is resi- dent. In special cases, blocked rand may be used for direct investment in manu fac tu r ing enterprises. Emi- grants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorable consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds, with the excep- tion of funds of persons who had been South A f r ican residents (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of com- modities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports f rom any country. Imports free of license include ( 1) all goods imported f rom Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. 5 Unlike the other types of nonresident rand accounts, Blocked Ac- counts can also be held by residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. SOUTH AFRICA The Import Control Regulations for 1976, as announced in December 1975, distinguish generally between the following broad categories of imports: (1) Goods which may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 507 tariff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 25.3 per cent of 1975 imports. ( 2) Goods which may be imported only under permit but subject to automatic licensing for bona fide mer- chants and manufacturers. These fall under an unspeci- fied number of tariff headings or subheadings and correspond to 60.0 per cent of 1975 imports. (3) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined from time to time. These account for about 6.0 per cent of 1975 imports. (4) Goods which may be imported only under per- mit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods individually are issued. They cover some 8.7 per cent of 1975 imports. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign- ment documents (proof of importation), an importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import. Payment prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. All payments to nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Authority is, how- ever, delegated to the commercial banks to approve certain payments without limitation and others up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident- owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favor- able consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked funds or other- wise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family mainte- nance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 500 for an adult (R 200 for a child under 12) for travel to Malawi, Rhodesia, Za'ire, Zambia, and Portu- guese East and West Africa. Applications for larger 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations out- side the Rand Mone tary Area may take out not more than the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes. South Afr i- can Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 50 but are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica within 12 months af ter arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of ins trumen ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Afr ica. These limi- tations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu re tu rn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reason- able amoun ts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South Africa. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (w i th the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- l a n d ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to all destinations but no import certificate is required where the goods are exported to the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, pro- tectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area is controlled to prevent com- modity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South A f r ica and surrendered within six months from the date of shipment and 30 days f rom the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days f rom the date of their acquisition, unless exemp- tion is obtained. Upon entry f rom countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 50 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic cur- rency from Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Capital* Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval; all inward loan transfers require specific approval,7 while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by resi- dents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed; when falling under the Securities Control Notices, transfers to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland also require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South Africa residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, sub- ject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring terri- tories (this term excludes Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land) funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the South African Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants (excluding former South African residents) may dispose of their foreign assets (including foreign cash f u n d s) held outside the Rand Monetary Area or otherwise invest them (including by purchase of South A f r ican securities abroad). The proceeds from the sale of all South African securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed freely (except for former South African residents) on amounts up to R 20,000 or, subject to Reserve Bank approval, on addi- tional amounts, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the author- ized banks without reference to the South African Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on maturity of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident 6 For purposes of the application of the Securities Control Notices, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside South A f r ica. For all other exchange control purposes, a nonresident is a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Monetary Area. 7 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad w i th a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for property development, speculation, or consumer credit. Authorized dealers gen- rally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South Afr ican foreign trade and other approved purposes. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repay- ments to nonresidents of South Africa by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nom inal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over f rom the reinvestment of blocked funds; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred outside South Africa as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the per- missible transferable amount is blocked, and the value of any foreign assets is deducted from the applicable settling-in allowance. Emigrants may, however, utilize such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a fam i ly un it to subscribe to the five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Government on a tender basis (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The South Afr ican Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at ma tur i ty to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances or undistrib- uted current profits, or for the t rans fer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export f rom South Africa of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling- in allowance. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand ( inc lud ing holders resident in Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) can repatriate funds from South Africa: (1) by taking up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; ( 2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974) for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South Afr ican shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them outside South Africa at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South Afr ican quota- tion; on December 31, 1975, the corresponding dis- count on blocked rand was about 7 per cent (but see December 4 entry under section on Changes during 1975, below). SOUTH AFRICA Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, reg- istered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re turn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufac tur ing jewelers (subject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate con- signee). Furthermore, authorized dealers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export for num isma t ic purposes currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, within one month of production, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins with- out a face value (Krugerrand) that are legal tender but do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1975 January 1. A further relaxation of import restrictions became effective. It provided for the transfer to the free list of 34 groups or classes of commodities that were subject to permit control, and for the transfer of 20 types of commodities in paragraph 4 of the import control measures, the importation of which was previ- ously strictly limited, to paragraph 2, which implied that these goods would be licensed to meet the full reason- able requirements of importers. January. Production capacity for Krugerrand was increased from 75,000 to 150,000 coins a week. May 2. The commission charged for forward pur- chases of foreign exchange for import payments was reduced from 3 per cent to 1 per cent, in order to encourage importers to make greater use of export credit available overseas. May 2. Further import permit allocations equivalent to 40 per cent of total permits issued in 1974 were granted for consumer goods, confectionery, and alco- holic beverages, bringing the total allocation for these three categories to 80 per cent. Only a 20 per cent 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA additional allocation was made for clothing, bringing the 1975 allocation to date up to 60 per cent of the 1974 allocation. June 27. It was announced that the Reserve Bank was discontinuing the practice of mak ing small and frequent adjustments to its buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars. In fu tu re these rates would be kept con- stant for longer periods at a time and would only be adjusted upward or downward if considered essential in the event of any basic change in domestic or interna- tional economic circumstances. The new policy would be based on a middle rate of R 1 = US$1.40 w i th the same total spread of l/2 of 1 per cent as before. The Reserve Bank quoted public buy ing and selling rates of US$1.4035 and US$1.3965 per rand. The previous middle rate had been R 1 = US$1.47. August 11. Restrictions on private sector borrow ing abroad were eased and certain other exchange control modifications were announced: (1) Local en t rep reneu rs were permitted to borrow funds abroad for periods of not less than six months, except for property develop- ment, speculation, or consumer credit; previously, for- eign loans were only approved for "manu fac tu r ing and other productive" purposes. The relaxation would extend to foreign borrowings by exporters in an t ic ipa t ion of receivable payments. (2) Authorized dealers might apply to raise funds abroad in the ir own names for the f inanc ing of South A f r ican fo re ign trade and other approved purposes. (3) It had been decided in princi- ple that blocked rand would be made directly t ran s fe ra- ble between nonresidents; the details and effective date would be announced later. (4) Control over local bor- rowing by foreign-controlled South A f r ican firms would be extended to certain leasing arrangemen ts, fac to r ing (with recourse), and certain "lease backs." (5) The normal maximum period for which the Reserve Bank would extend forward exchange cover for imports was extended from 6 months to 12 months; applications for forward cover for longer periods would be considered for certain capital goods imports. (6) The requirement that forward exchange cover must be arranged w i th in seven days af ter the fore ign transaction was concluded was abolished. (7) Applications for forward cover by authorized dealers in respect of foreign loans raised in their own names would be favorab ly considered. (8) Authorized dealers might arrange foreign finance for imports, without reference to the Reserve Bank, for periods not exceeding 12 months, against 180 days previously. August 28. The third and final round of permit allo- cations for imports in 1975 was announced. The allo- cation was for 20 per cent of permits issued in 1974 for consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alco- holic beverages. This brought the total for 1975 to 100 per cent of 1974 allocations for these commodity groups, except clothing, which stood at 80 per cent. Also, the release from import control was announced of 20 groups of commodities still subject to import restrictions; they were gazetted on September 5. September 22. The Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was reduced to R 1 = US$1.15 from R 1 = US$1.40. The Reserve Bank's buy ing and sell- ing rates were adjusted to R 1 = US$1.1529 and R 1 = US$1.1471, respectively. No change was made in the exchange rate policy introduced on June 27. December 4. It was announced that from January 1, 1976 the blocked rand system would be changed. "Blocked rand" ar is ing f rom investment by nonresidents would be redesignated "securities rand"; the latter term would denote the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South A f r ica, owned by nonresidents, excluding former resi- dents of South Africa. Emigrants' funds blocked in South A f r ica would continue to be referred to as blocked rand and would be subject to the same restric- tions as before. The Johannesburg stock exchange would be permitted to quote prices for securities rand, and its members would be permitted to buy and 'sell securities rand on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized dealers would be permitted to transfer securities rand balances from one securities rand account in their books to another, in their own books or in the books of another authorized dealer; the relevant exchange control requirements would be advised in due course. December 8. The import control policy for 1976 was announced. It would be maintained substantially along the lines which applied dur ing 1975. Importers would be granted an advance permit allocation of 40 per cent of the total permits issued to them in 1975 in respect of consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages. This allocation was equivalent to the advance granted for 1975, and fur ther issues for the commodities in question would be reviewed in May 1976. The import control regulations for 1976 were gazetted on December 19. December 22. It was announced that the changeover f rom blocked rand to securities rand was being post- poned un t il February 2, 1976. (Trading in securities rand began on February 2, 1976; the opening quotation was US$0.97-0.98 per R 1. Purchases by nonresidents of nonquoted securities continued to be settled at the official exchange rate.) 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta. Spain avails itself of wider margins. The official intervention limits for the U.S. dollar have been suspended since January 22, 1974. The official buying and selling rates of the Bank of Spain on Decem- ber 31, 1975 were Ptas 59.689 and Ptas 59.859 per US$1.1 Official buying and selling rates for specified cur- rencies2 are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain acting in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes buy ing and selling rates for banknotes in specified foreign currencies on a weekly basis. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and forward transactions related to commercial transactions for up to 360 days; forward transactions with customers are restricted to currencies adm i t ted to the Madrid foreign exchange market and to permitted import and export transactions with a ma tu r i ty up to 360 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are fo rmu- lated by an interministerial commission. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of all administrative func t ions connected with exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of the operative func t ions (basically, the handling of the external reserves). It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency loans to resi- dents for nontrade purposes. Trade controls are administered by the M in is try of Commerce. This Ministry also is in charge of the con- trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the registration of foreign investments in Spain. Contracts dealing with technology must be registered w i th the M in is try of Industry. 1 On Feb rua ry 9, 1976 the peseta was allowed to depreciate to Ptas 66.54 buy ing, and Ptas 66.60 selling, per US$1. 3 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified cur- rency,2 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral pay- ments agreement coun tr ies3 are made through agree- ment accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are six types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Payments in Spain (A Accounts), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accounts), External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies, Bank Accounts in Pesetas w i th Andorra, and Emigrants' Accounts. A Accounts may freely be credited with (1) the countervalue in pesetas of convertible currencies sold on the Spanish foreign exchange marke t; (2) amounts transferred from other A Accounts; ( 3) amounts trans- ferred from B Accounts; and (4) any interest payable on the account concerned. These accounts may freely be debited for ( 1) any payment in pesetas in favor of Spanish jur id ical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain (including payments relating to foreign investment in Spain); and (2) trans- fers to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign currency for remittance abroad are not permitted. B Accounts may freely be credited with (1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under existing rules are transferable abroad under powers delegated to authorized banks; (2) amounts transferred from other B Accounts; and ( 3) any interest payable on the account concerned. The crediting of amounts originating from A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) the countervalue in pesetas of foreign currency acquired on the Spanish foreign exchange mar- ket; (2) any payments in pesetas in favor of Spanish ju r id ical persons and Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain, including those relating to for- eign investment in Spain; ( 3) transfers to other B Accounts; and (4) transfers to A Accounts. All other entries on A or B Accounts require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. Private banks are required to make special noninterest- bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of the increases after October 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in A and B Accounts (demand deposits, savings account deposits, 3 Colombia, Egypt, and Equatorial Guinea. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN or time deposits at less than three months' no t ice), and in an amount equivalent to 50 per cent of the increases in such deposits when held for three months or more (100 per cent of any increase af ter February 7, 1973). Furthermore, banks are prohibited from paying interest on any nonresident-held peseta deposits in A or B Accounts, whether demand, time, or savings deposits. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold funds accruing in Spain to nonresidents that are not transferable abroad ("blocked pesetas"). Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts; if the recipient of pesetas does not hold an account of this type, he needs prior approval to open one. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas f rom an External Account in Internal Pesetas; (2) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owner ;4 (3) with receipts f rom the National Lottery; (4) w i th any nontransferable wages, salaries, pensions, rents, or divi- dends accruing to the account holder; (5) with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (6) w i th transfers f rom any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (managers' per- sonal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a ju r id ical pe r son ); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresi- dent physical person) of u rban and rural properties that do not represent investment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (applicable to rural properties only if the account holder is of Spanish n a t ion a l i ty ); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in In te rnal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, nonresident Spanish na t iona ls, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may ma in ta in such accounts only if opened before Janua ry 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, inc lud ing the transfer to an A Account. Over- 4 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. 406 drafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts—Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards working abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports are admitted under the following arrangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the ''bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Pro- vided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.5 All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.6 With certain excep- tions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are issued freely. Imports of raw cotton, cer- ta in other agricultural products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of domi- ciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 500,000 provided that pay- ment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Some transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles 5 The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries (except Egypt) or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, People's Republic of China, North Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, North Viet-Nam, San Marino, Tibet, and U.S.S.R. 6 There are separate global quotas for imports of the same com- modities f rom EEC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are subject to individual authorization, for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services, transfers may be made freely up to a pre- established amoun t; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required which are granted at the discretion of the Government. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies and acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued inter- est, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been pur- chased with convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market, or with pesetas released from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and divi- dends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restriction. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided the purchase price has been paid in fu ll and the owner has no outstanding tax liabilities applicable to the property concerned. A gen- eral license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or w i th foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance con- tracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; however, amoun ts in excess of this l im it are approved freely for bona fide tourist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For larger amounts, the banks must apply for approval, which may be granted. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain (Ptas 10,000 for persons going to Ando r ra ). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation in Spanish industries of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is exempt from authorization, while investment that exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the SPAIN Council of Ministers; for participation in public service companies in general, the former ratio is 25 per cent. Special ratios and regulations apply for a number of specific activities.7 Foreign investment in Spanish compa- nies manu fac tu r ing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registration only; within 30 days the registration may be deemed authorization if no notification to the contrary has been received. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with na t ional defense, while investment in firms dealing with public in fo rma t ion and in certain public services is sub- ject to specific regulations. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected by transferr ing currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Invest- ment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. All contracts dealing with technology require prior registration with the M in is t ry of Industry. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted freely up to the percentages applicable to direct investment. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convert- ible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any t ime, or used for fur ther purchases of shares.8 Purchases by nonresidents of bonds and other fixed- income securities representing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this para- graph, and the fu ll sales proceeds are transferable. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, w i th in certain limits,9 freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from bal- 7 The foreign content of investment by Spanish companies with for- eign participation (inversion de cascada) is determined in the following manne r: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the invest- ment is considered 100 per cent foreign; (2) if foreign participation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered foreign to the extent of such participation; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered as domestic. 8 However, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation proceeds abroad. 9 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality are freely permitted by a general authorization as follows, if financed with funds imported from abroad: (1) one plot not exceed- ing 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwelling for personal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apartment build- ing, and (3) up to three apartments in a single apartment building. There are separate regulations for the purchase of business premises. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN ances in nonresident peseta accounts (A or B Accounts). The Ministry of Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Cer- tain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, rural properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the fu ll sales proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas from an External Account in Convertible Pesetas, an A Account, or a B Account. If the initial purchase was financed w i th pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sales proceeds is transferable. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. No formal authorization is required for such investments when undertaken by Spanish firms which have been granted an individual "export card" and have net assets in Spain of at least Ptas 100 million, provided that the firm's total foreign investments do not exceed 40 per cent of its assets in Spain. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. However, regis- tered investment funds w i th assets of at least Ptas 1 bil- lion are permitted to place up to 10 per cent of their assets in foreign securities that are officially quoted on specified stock exchanges abroad. Approval of requests by nonbank resident firms to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits from Spanish resi- dents to nonresidents require authorization by the Minis- try of Commerce; such authorization accompanies the export license. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credit granted direct to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. Also, the authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, pro- vided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce. Local bank credit at medium term or long term to Spanish firms with foreign participation in excess of 25 per cent is subject to spe- cial directives, but domestic bank credit for up to 18 months may be granted, irrespective of the degree of 408 foreign participation, on the same conditions as to wholly Spanish-owned firms. For transfers abroad of bona fide inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the Bank of Spain is allowed to import or export gold; industrial requirements are met by imports effected by the Bank of Spain. There is a global quota for imports of gold from member countries of the EEC. Changes during 1975 January 7. Settlements with Cuba were placed on a convertible currency basis, with the provisional entry into force of a trade agreement signed on December 14, 1974. January 1. The global import quotas for 1975 came into force. January 14. The Bank of Spain's Circular No. 106 transm i t ted to authorized banks Circular No. 4/74 of December 20, 1974 of the Directorate-General for External Transactions. The latter circular established rules for the declaration of foreign investments in Spain; it also dealt with the procedures for payments and collections abroad and for bank ing domiciliation of for- eign investments. January 20. A resolution of the Directorate-General for External Transactions set out the administrative procedures for the creation by nonresidents or foreign companies of branches or establishments in Spain under Decrees Nos. 3021/1974 and 3022/1974. January 25. The Directorate-General for External Transactions issued a resolution concerning the docu- mentation to be submitted with applications for autho- rization to make foreign investments in Spanish firms and in rural real estate. January 25. The Directorate-General for External Transactions issued a resolution concerning the declara- tion of foreign investments in Spain. With minor excep- tions, such investments as well as their liquidation had to be declared for inclusion in the Register of Foreign Investments of the M in is try of Commerce. With one general exception, however, investments made prior to February 1, 1975 were exempt from declaration; their liquidation, nevertheless, was subject to declaration. January 31. An Order of the Ministry of Finance provided for the possibility of granting "collaborating organizations" of exporters tax relief on exports. January 31. The rules governing External Accounts in Internal Pesetas were modified. (1) The kind of assets in which balances held by foreign companies (excluding their establishments in Spain) and nonresi- dent physical persons (whether of Spanish or foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nationality) could be invested was extended to include private and government fixed-interest securities. As previously, earnings on eligible assets were freely trans- ferable. (2) The principal invested in these assets (including any capital gains) was made transferable, provided that the investment had been maintained in the same securities, without interruption, for at least three consecutive years; otherwise, the sales proceeds had to be credited to an External Account in Internal Pesetas. (3) The use of pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas for the purchase of rural properties for personal use was l im i ted to nonresident physical persons of Spanish nationality. In addition, un iform treatment was henceforth accorded to balances in External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, with the elimination of the distinction between those released prior to June 1, 1972 and those released on or after that date (Resolution No. 2134 of Janu- ary 23, 1975 of the Directorate-General for External Transactions). February 14. Commodities under 65 tariff headings were deliberalized by transfer f rom the import free list to the global quota list. The global quotas were announced in a Resolution of February 27. March 21. For travel to Andorra, the amount of Spanish banknotes that travelers may take out was increased from Ptas 3,000 to Ptas 10,000 a person. April 10. An Order of March 5 of the Ministry of Finance came into force which allowed Spanish compa- nies with foreign participation to obtain domestic credit for up to 18 months on the same conditions as wholly Spanish-owned firms. As regards medium-term and long-term credit, companies w i th foreign participation not exceeding 25 per cent were authorized to obtain credits of over 18 months without restriction, while companies with foreign participation of more than 25 per cent could obtain domestic credit up to 50 per cent of paid-up capital and reserves, if they could at the same time obtain external credit (in a proportion to the total credit at least equal to the percentage of the foreign participation in the company). May 6. In a resolution of April 17, the Directorate- General for External Transactions published a first list of Spanish companies with majority foreign participa- tion. These firms had two months to submit details of their capital and of any investments held in other Span- ish companies. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 19. Decree No. 1497/1975 summarized all implementing regulations for Decrees Nos. 3021/1974 SPAIN and 3022/1974 concerning foreign investment in Spain, and enumerated the regulations that had been canceled or modified. June 20. A resolution of the Directorate-General for External Transactions authorized the use of balances in savings accounts held by Spanish emigrants for the mak ing of investments in Spain. Holders of investments so financed were entitled to all rights of transfer abroad to which foreign investors were entitled. June 21. Decree No. 1361/1975 of June 20 came into effect. It revoked the temporary import duty reduc- tions introduced by Decrees Nos. 1426/1973 and 1467/1973 of June 1973. July 4. The Directorate-General of Exports issued a resolution concerning the "global export regime," modi- fy ing the provisions of the relevant resolution of August 12, 1974, which was revoked. The new resolu- tion specified the goods that could be exported to any country (except payments agreement countries) under global export licenses, as well as the permissible export credit periods. July 24. Decree No. 2185/1975 modified the regula- tions concerning temporary imports, including those for re-export. August 7. The export du ty on olive oil was abolished. August 27. A resolution of July 30 of the Directorate- General for External Transactions was gazetted, which regulated purchases of real estate by nonresident physi- cal persons of foreign nationality. Such persons could freely, w i th funds imported f rom abroad, purchase ( 1) plots of land not exceeding 5,000 square meters for the construction of one single-family dwelling for the owner's personal use; (2) land for the construction of apartment buildings, provided that no member of the apartment building commun i ty owned more than three apartments in the building for which the site was pur- chased; and (3) for business purposes, up to three com- mercial premises w i th a max imum total area of 200 square meters. The relevant resolution of December 20, 1974 was revoked. September 25. Exports of specified fresh f ru i ts and vegetables became subject to export levies at rates not exceeding the difference between domestic and foreign prices. September 29. The Bank of Spain suspended its deal- ings in Mexican pesos and Portuguese escudps. Dealings in escudos were resumed on February 13, 1976. December 31. An Order of the Ministry of Finance provided for certain changes in the regime established under an Order of July 9, 1974 for the granting of credit to finance the working capital of export firms. The new regulations came into force on January 1, 1976. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Sri Lanka Rupee. The Sri Lanka rupee is pegged to ster- ling at the rate of SL Rs 15.60 = £ stg. 1. The official exchange rate is applicable to receipts from major exports and to payments for "A category" imports (rice, wheat flour, fertilizers, Western Pharmaceuticals, and certain other imports classified as essentials), as well as some invisibles. Another effective rate of SL Rs 25.74 = <£ stg. 1 arises from transactions in Foreign Exchange Entitle- ment Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of nontraditional exports (i.e., exports other than black tea, rubber, and major coconut products) and most other earners or recipients of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident travelers, when converting foreign exchange into Sri Lanka rupees at the official rate, may also receive either corresponding certificates or their cash value in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Sri Lanka rupees and are issued with a face value equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are not transferable and must be surrendered to authorized dealers within 30 days of the date of issue for encashment at a price of SL Rs 65 per SL Rs 100 in certificates. Additional certificates are sold by commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand and at the same price; such certifi- cates also are not transferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of foreign exchange required must be surrendered when purchasing foreign exchange for payments in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The commercial banks deal in certificates for up to four months forward, at SL Rs 66 selling, and SL Rs 64 buying, per SL Rs 100 certificate; transactions are permitted only when relating to anticipated genuine payments and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privi- leges are applicable. The Central Bank deals in U.S. dollars, sterling, and Indian rupees only. While its spot rates for sterling and the Indian rupee are fixed, the Central Bank determines exchange parities for some 20 other foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, from time to time on the basis of London market rates for those currencies. Rates for other foreign currencies are determined by commercial banks, also on the basis of London market rates. The Central Bank stands ready to provide forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars, sterling, and Indian rupees, buying and selling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon as 410 agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is drawn up annually by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs. This Ministry is responsible for the exchange allocations for government departments and public corporations. Within a block allocation to private sector importers, licenses for the industrial sector are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs. Otherwise, import and export licensing is han- dled by the Controller of Imports and Exports. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Control- ler of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Sri Lanka has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Payments to countries that prior to June 23, 1972 were Scheduled Territories may continue to be made in the currencies of such countries, and receipts from such countries continue to be acceptable in the currencies of such countries, with the exception that export proceeds normally must be received in prescribed currencies (see below). Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements * and with Egypt must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments in respect of trade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts from, mem- ber countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Pakistan (i.e., Bangladesh, India, Iran, and Nepal) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary units through the Asian Clearing Union; for settlements with Pakistan, this is applicable to invisibles only. Payments to all other coun- tries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Sri Lanka rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country. Furthermore, payments for imports not originating in countries with which bilateral pay- ments agreements are in force (nor in Rhodesia) may be made in any foreign currency, i.e., any currency other than the Sri Lanka rupee. Receipts f rom all other coun- 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Repub- lic, North Korea, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries except Rhodesia may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an approved account or in any prescribed currency.2 Transactions involving deviations from the general procedures require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special procedures apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Trans- fers of balances in these accounts to sterling External Accounts or External Rupee Accounts require approval by the Controller of Exchange. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used in Sri Lanka for certain investments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Special Accounts may be maintained in Sri Lanka by nationals of Sri Lanka working abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad (inclusive of the value of the certificates to which the remittances entitle the holder) but the accounts may be freely debited for payments within Sri Lanka. Balances in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax, and income arising from investments made out of such balances with the approval of the Controller of Exchange is exempt from income tax; the value of such investments is also exempt from wealth tax. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts of up to SL Rs 750, and books up to certain specified amounts for each consignment), all imports require individual licenses. All trade imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities, Western Pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, books and periodicals, and two-wheeled trac- tors. The B category includes all remaining imports. The value and composition of imports are established 2 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. SRI LANKA by an annual import program. Imports of many non- essential items or goods similar to locally produced items are either not permitted or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government de- partments, government-sponsored corporations, and registered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain commodities for their own use, subject to special authorization. Imports of speci- fied commodities 3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or the Lanka Salu Sala Ltd.; these commodities are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. Public sector imports shipped or transshipped from places served by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation must be carried in vessels owned or chartered by the Corporation, whenever such shipping space is available. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these for certain imports, including items otherwise not permitted, subject to approval by the Controller of Imports and Exports and, in some cases, the Controller of Exchange. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident ac- count when the applicant furnishes or undertakes to furn ish evidence of importation and the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee payment; imports in the A category do not require the surrender of certificates. Import licenses for certain imports (primarily food products, industrial raw mate- rials, and machinery) may be subject to a minimum deferred payment term. Letters of credit against such licenses may be opened provided that drafts are drawn payable either not earlier than 6 months after shipment or 12 months or later after shipment, in accordance with the terms of the import license. Payments for certain imports under trade credits of 90, 180, or 365 days' duration are exempt from the requirement of surrender of certificates. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require sur- 3These include mainly rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), unre- fined sugar, refined sugar, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, masoor dhal, dried chilies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manufactures of textile materials. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA render of certificates corresponding to the full amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of certifi- cates are ( 1) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad; (2) remittances abroad by non- nationals for fam i ly maintenance, up to certain limits; (3) provident fund contributions and life insurance premiums which commenced prior to the introduction on May 6, 1968 of the certificate scheme; (4) pensions and the final remittance, on retirement, of pension and provident funds, contributions to which commenced prior to May 6, 1968; (5) expenditures of foreign embassies, official international organizations, and for- eign diplomatic personnel; and (6) other expenditures abroad specifically exempted f rom the certificate sur- render requirement by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Sri Lanka is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for emigration, the taking up of employment abroad, and furloughs of nonnationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of <£ stg. 15 a day for persons of the rank of chairman or director of a firm or corporation and of <£ stg. 10 a day for other executives for a maximum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is allocated only for certain courses of study that w i ll be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Sri Lanka; allocations are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, acting on the personal recommendation of the Minister of Education. For study in educational institutions in "Asian group" countries,4 exchange up to a maximum of SL Rs 250 a month for undergraduate studies or up to SL Rs 450 a month for postgraduate studies is allowed, as well as SL Rs 250 a year for books plus actual fees. For study in the United Kingdom, foreign exchange is made available at <£ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and at <£ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies, plus actual fees, and £ stg. 25 a year for the cost of books. Following the devaluation of the pound sterling in November 1967, students in countries whose currencies were not devalued were allowed supplementary remit- tances to enable them to receive the same amount as previously in the currency concerned. For study in such countries (other than the United States and Canada ), the maximum allowable is <£ stg. 53 a month for under- graduate studies and <£ stg. 70 a month for post- graduate studies; the maximum for the United States 4 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East African region, Brunei, Bu rma, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pak is tan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, and Turkey. 412 and Canada is US$225 a month and US$240 a month for undergraduate and postgraduate studies, respectively (in addition to an annual book allowance and actual fees). For travel (and other expenses) for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Sri Lanka and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treat- ment cannot be obtained in Sri Lanka; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as cer- tified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a max imum of SL Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit <£ stg. 85 a month for a wife, <£ stg. 105 for a boy in a senior school, <£ stg. 100 for a girl in a senior school, <£ stg. 75 for a child in a jun ior school, and <£ stg. 25 for other children, up to a maximum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Tem- porary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles, subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Sri Lanka currency notes and coins. Resi- dents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of SL Rs 50 a person (SL Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted exchange for travel. Subject to the approval of the Controller of Exchange, residents may also export domestic currency notes of a value not exceeding SL Rs 50 a person (SL Rs 25 for children under 12). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports, and exports to countries with which Sri Lanka ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Furthermore, most exports require an export license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports; licenses for tea are issued by the Commissioner of Tea Exports and those for coconut products by the Coconut Market- ing Board. Rubber exports to the People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are under state trading. The State Gem Corporation has the exclusive right to export gems and exports of private exporters are made with the permission of the Cor- poration; it also handles exports in the names of gem miners who wish to export gems through the Corpora- tion. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and dia- monds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fair value for the goods has been or will be received in Sri Lanka by approved methods of payment and, usually, within six months from the date of ship- ment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. There are special arrangements, how- ever, for gems and nontraditional exports. Exporters may maintain accounts, designated Convertible Rupee Accounts, with authorized dealers in Sri Lanka. These may be credited with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. Sri Lanka rupee value (inclusive of certificates) of the net export proceeds of gems, with 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates where ap- plicable) of nontraditional exports, and with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates) of net export proceeds of original and individual works of art by individuals. Debits to the accounts are permitted for imports, travel and study abroad, other payments which are not of a capital nature, and transfers to other Convertible Rupee Accounts. Exporters of all goods other than black tea in bulk and in packets, rubber (excluding sponge rubber), coconut oil, copra, desiccated coconut, and fresh coco- nuts are entitled to receive certificates with a face value in Sri Lanka rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these cer- tificates as supporting documents when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the surrender of certificates. Cer- tificates have to be surrendered to the monetary authori- ties or to an authorized bank within 30 days of issue. The holders can use them when making foreign ex- change payments within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following headings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; SRI LANKA (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) pri- vate transfers and donations; (5) small savings remitted to Sri Lanka by workers abroad;5 and (6) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by- case basis, by the Chief Accountant of the Central Bank. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange con- verted with authorized dealers; alternatively, the latter may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. Part of the Sri Lanka rupee equivalent of certain proceeds from invisibles may be credited to Convertible Rupee Accounts; this proportion is 5 per cent of gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings by individuals from the sale of their original and individual works of art to tourists in Sri Lanka and from the publication abroad of scien- tific and literary works, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings from professional and consultancy services performed abroad by individuals, and 5 per cent of the proceeds from such services performed by firms, com- panies, etc. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his hold- ings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Sri Lanka, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Sri Lanka notes in denomina- tions of SL Rs 10 or less may be imported up to SL Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in pro- jects which are specifically approved by the Govern- ment, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incor- porated in Sri Lanka; capital transfers for direct invest- ment in Sri Lanka are entitled to receive certificates upon conversion of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation; transfers require the surrender of certificates. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested with 5 Since December 17, 1971 Sri Lanka nationals employed abroad and not availing themselves of the Special Accounts scheme for small sav- ings introduced on February 6, 1971 may be required to remit to Sri Lanka a specified percentage of their annual earnings, if these exceed specified amounts. Compliance may be required for annual passport renewal. The funds remitted are entitled to certificates upon conversion but may not be used for imports or payments abroad. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are con- sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment Ad- visory Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, in- terest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Emigrants are allowed to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 100 and the cost of passage, subject to reimbursement within three years. They may also export their personal and household effects up to SL Rs 5,000, and their personal jewelry up to SL Rs 7,500. Emigrants over 60 years of age are also permitted remittances of pensions or other in- come accruing in Sri Lanka up to <£ stg. 25 a month. Otherwise, emigrants are not permitted capital remit- tances except on grounds of dire hardship, nor gener- ally, remittances of income (including pensions) accru- ing in Sri Lanka. However, certain remittances of income may be approved to persons over 55 who emi- grated before June 26, 1973, and pension payments to persons pensioned by the Government of Sri Lanka who emigrated before 1964 have been continued with- out interruption. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets represent- ing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government f rom time to time. For persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to certain limits. The transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires the surrender of certificates; exempt are ( 1) balances on provident and pension funds held abroad and repre- senting contributions in respect of contractual obliga- tions entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provident and pension funds held in rupees in Sri Lanka, and (3) the value of insurance policies held abroad and taken out before May 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports 414 by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The People's Bank is the sole importer of gold; it has not imported any nonmonetary gold since July 1972. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers and also to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. No credits to Convertible Rupee Accounts are allowed for the gold or silver content of commercial exports of jewelry. Changes during 1975 January 7. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia expired. January 8. The import of motor vehicles as bona fide g i f ts to residents f rom close relatives living abroad was permitted. January 9. The bilateral payments agreement with Roman ia expired. January 19. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland expired. January 22. Imports of tallow, palm oil, and milling copra by the Coconut Development Authority again became subject to the surrender of certificates; they had been exempt since September 27, 1974. January 24. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary expired. February 20. The scheme providing for releases of exchange to emigrants on a reimbursable basis, which had been introduced with effect from June 26, 1973 and suspended on October 22, 1974, was reintroduced on the following basis: Emigrants were allowed (1) the cost of passage; ( 2) <£ stg. 100 for a fam i ly un i t; (3) export of personal and household effects valued at up to SL Rs 5,000; and (4) export of their personal jewelry valued at up to SL Rs 7,500. These allowances were subject to the reimbursement of items (1) and (2) within three years, and upon their furnishing in Sri Lanka rupees a cash deposit or bank guarantee equivalent to the foreign exchange advanced, calculated at the certificate rate. Emigrants over 60 years of age were in addition allowed remittances of their pensions or other income in Sri Lanka up to <£ stg. 25 a month. It was also decided that persons leaving to take up employment abroad would be allowed ( 1) the cost of the outward passage and (2) <£ stg. 50, both on a reimbursement basis, subject to their furn ish ing a cash deposit or bank guarantee in the manner required of emigrants. February 24. Authorized dealers were informed of the procedures to be observed in respect of payments for exports and imports effected under the special trading agreement of October 28, 1974 between the Director of Commerce of the Government of Sri Lanka, and AB Sukab of Sweden. April 2. Residents were permitted to receive gifts for their personal use from persons resident abroad on the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution following basis: ( 1) where the value of the gift did not exceed SL Rs 750, without an import license; (2) where the value of the gift was between SL Rs 750 and SL Rs 2,500, an import license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports was required. May 7. All applications for permission to export cement became subject to prior approval by the Con- troller of Exchange. June 15. Export duties on coconut products were reduced. July 21. Export duties on rubber were reduced. July 22. A Commercial Cooperation Agreement with the EEC was signed. September 17. In certain cases, funds withdrawn from Convertible Rupee Accounts could, without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange, be credited back to the accounts f rom which withdrawals had been made. October 22. The National Assembly passed the Land Reform Amendment Law, which nationalized all land- holdings over 50 acres, including 191 estates controlled by nonresident companies. The ownership of public company estates was vested in the Land Reform Commission. October 27. An Order of the Ministry of Finance was gazetted which revised the prescription of currency rules for exports. Except where payment was made in accordance w i th any trade and payments agreement or the provisions of the agreement establishing the Asian Clearing Union, payment for exports had to be made to a resident as follows: (1) in Sri Lanka rupees from the account of a foreign bank maintained with an author- ized dealer, or such account of any other person resi- dent outside Sri Lanka as might be approved by the Central Bank and that was maintained with an autho- rized dealer; or (2) in any of the foreign currencies on a revised list of prescribed currencies. Austrian schillings, Italian lire, and Portuguese escudos were removed from SRI LANKA the previous list, and Australian dollars and Japanese yen were added to it. November 1. The Asian Clearing Union began oper- ations. Payments and receipts in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) to and from Bangladesh, India, Iran, and Nepal had to be settled in Asian mone- tary units (1 Asian monetary unit = SDR 1). Trade with Pakistan, however, would continue to be settled through a special account under arrangements valid until December 31, 1975, while settlement of transac- tions in invisibles with Pakistan took place under Clearing Union arrangements with effect from Novem- ber 1, 1975. November 5. Export duties on coconut products were abolished. November 5. It was announced that a Foreign In- vestment Guarantee Law was being drafted. It was not enacted during 1975. November 8. Exports of tea by agency houses were channeled through the Bank of Ceylon. November 10. The Ministry of Finance ruled that henceforth all banking operations in connection with import and export operations of the public sector would be carried out by the nationalized banking sector, thereby excluding foreign commercial banks from this business. December 9. The Department of Exchange Control withdrew every general or specific permission given to authorized dealers to issue permits, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, for the export of tea for sale at London auctions. All applications had to be referred to the Exchange Control Department. December. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria was terminated. December 31. The credit agreement between the Central Bank of Ceylon and the Reserve Bank of Pakistan was extended. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound. The Sudanese pound is defined by law as having a gold content of 2.115368 grams of fine gold. The effec t ive par i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U.S. dollar is LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Fixed official rates for transac- tions in U.S. dollars are quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central b a n k ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government on December 31, 1975 were US$2.86726 buy ing, and US$2.87588 selling, per LSd 1. An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds f rom exports of cotton, to which the exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87156 continues to apply, as a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U.S. dollar (i.e., 15 per cen t) to the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the de ta il being carried out by autho- rized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of go ld) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Na t ional Economy, but all reg is tra t ion fo rms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control au thor i t ies (Bank of Sud an ). Impo rt payments and other foreign payments are approved within the f rame- work of an annual fore ign exchange budget that is drawn up by the M in is try of National Economy and approved by the Economic Council of the Cabinet. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries1 are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Suda- nese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncom- mercial invisibles except those payable to Egyp t2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and mone ta ry areas ( the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any fore ign currency, while receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any nonres ident account or in any convertible cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to ma in ta in accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited w i th convertible cur- 1 Sudan has bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Egypt and Ind ia. 2 Payments to Egypt for gasoline and Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies. All other paymen ts are settled th rough the bilateral account. 416 rencies. Other fore ign personnel work ing in the Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in the Sudan, may ma in ta in resident current or savings accounts in Sudanese pounds. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined by fo rmer residents; earnings accruing to these accounts may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts requ ire approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica also are prohibited. Per- mitted impor ts generally are licensed or accepted for reg is tra t ion in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Impor ts of certain consumer goods and commercial trucks are eligible for importa- t ion on a barter basis. Certain imports are permitted only when acceptable fore ign financing is obtained. Sugar and wheat are imported by a state agency only. For goods that require ind iv idual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the M in is try of Finance and Na t ional Economy and validated ( f r a n k e d) by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank. "Nil" licenses, which also require f rank ing, are issued for certain imports financed with foreign exchange held abroad by residents and by Sudanese expatriates or offi- cials stationed abroad. Import insurance normally must be taken out w i th local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable before validation and a sur- charge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports; capital goods, heavy trucks, tires and tubes, and medicines are exempt from advance deposits. Goods otherwise subject to the advance deposit requirements are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' ma tu r i ty, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin of 10 per cent to 30 per cent. In prac- tice, for many goods whose impor ta t ion the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. A s tamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of pri- vate sector imports. Most imports are subject to a devel- opment tax of 2 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Remittances are permitted for family mainte- nance (up to LSd 500 a person a yea r ), educational ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expenses (up to LSd 1,200 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tu i t ion fees; study in the United States is exempt f rom this ce i l ing ), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a max imum of LSd 60 every other year for each adult traveling to Western Europe and the United States, and LSd 40 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, how- ever, are the equivalent of LSd 50 an adult, and LSd 30 a child, a year, and are also authorized by the commer- cial banks. Exchange for travel must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit foreign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 — US$2.50 may at the same rate obtain foreign exchange equivalent to 75 per cent of the amount con- verted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. Sudanese Government offi- cials (other than seconded s t a f f) and students receiving educational allowances at the official rate are not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement. Salaried foreign nationals not permanen t ly resident in the Sudan, except Egyptian nationals, are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica, Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and divi- dends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The remittance of income accruing from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) is prohibited, except for earnings f rom investments in government securities made before 1970. The exporta- tion of Sudanese currency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all payments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 5 on appli- cations for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remit- tances and those by diplomats are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. With the exception of cotton and gum arabic, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to an authorized bank. Autho- rized banks may approve these forms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. All commodities are subject to m in imum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some SUDAN major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. At the end of 1975, the export of some commodities (including meat and du r ra) was prohibited for supply reasons, and the export of certain others was permitted only when the proceeds were to be received in convertible currencies. Certain minor exports may be sold on a barter basis. Most exports are subject to a development tax of 2 per cent ad valorem. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad other than gov- ernment officials or students may remit foreign exchange in convertible currencies to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50, and receive an incen- tive bonus of 60 per cent per annum which is paid on amounts so transferred to the Sudan and kept in a spe- cial account for at least six mon ths ;3 75 per cent of the remittances so received may be repatriated at the end of the six-month period but in that case the bonus is forfe i ted and the remittance becomes subject to the pre- vailing exchange tax. Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Sudanese cur- rency is forbidden. Capital Under the Development and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act, 1972, which superseded the Organiza- tion and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equiva- lent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigra- tion from the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for num isma t ic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other thari jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. 3 This bonus is payable only once, irrespective of the length of time by which the deposit period might exceed six months. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the bilateral payments agreement with Czecho- slovakia, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 9. The 1974 regulation was amended which had canceled all export licenses for meat and livestock for which letters of credit had not been opened prior to December 17, 1974. Letters of credit could still be opened until January 31, but existing contracts could not be modified. February 1. Exports of durra and millet were pro- hibited. February 18. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland expired. March. A new marketing policy designed to encour- age exports was adopted. In addition to price conces- sions, it made provision for deferred payments for exports. A flexible pricing policy would be followed for cotton exports, which now could also be sold on deferred payment terms. March 31. The bilateral payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic expired. Settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. April 5. The Ministry of Finance and National Econ- omy announced that it would consider applications for imports to be financed with foreign credit facilities, if the terms and conditions of finance were reasonable and there was actual need for the commodities involved. April 5. Applications for "nil" licenses for commer- cial imports henceforth would be considered only from Sudanese expatriates working abroad; in certain cases applications for imports for personal use would also be considered. Among those eligible to apply were gov- ernment officials abroad, Sudanese diplomats, and Suda- nese on secondment abroad. Other Sudanese could apply provided they presented documents concerning the source of finance. April 8. Exports of dom nuts, mother of pearl and trochus shells, henna, and crude animal materials could be licensed on a fu ll barter basis. In addition, melon seeds and gourd seeds, honey, beeswax, and fruits could be exported on a partial barter basis, with 50 per cent of the proceeds to be obtained in convertible currencies. At the same time, specified consumer goods and other items became eligible for importation on a barter basis; these were spices; sandalwood and mahlab, perfumes, and cosmetics; television sets, radios, and tape recorders; commercial trucks; certain undergarments and ready- made clothing; toys; and groceries. April 26. The ban on payments to, and trade with, Portugal was lifted. May 2. Export proceeds of gum arabic became eli- gible for the 15 per cent exchange subsidy. As a result, cotton remained the only export not settled at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. July 17. Licensing of imports from India for settle- ment under the bilateral payments agreement was sus- pended. The suspension was subsequently lifted. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM* (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.457587 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder. Surinam has established a central rate of Sur. f. 1.78876 = US$1, and avails itself of wider margins. The fixed official rates for the U.S. dollar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per US$1. There are also fixed official buy ing and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U.S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank of Surinam on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and those currencies in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in Surinam, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Surinam. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and nonresi- dents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has autho- rized the Director of Economic A f fa i rs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the M in is try of Economic A f fa i r s) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank of Surinam to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import l icense); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current payments without requir- ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without requiring the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies2 although payments to and f rom * Surinam is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 1 All currencies other than the Surinam guilder are considered for- eign currencies. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Carib- bean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether- lands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks have also been granted a general license permitting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Nonresident guilders or foreign cur- rency accounts may not be credited with Surinam bank- notes mailed from abroad or with the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non- EEC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroas ted), sugar, powdered milk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furn i ture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of commodities are subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabricated wooden houses, certain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane furniture. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and fu rn i tu re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. A government agency, the Surinam Central Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple foodstuffs. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presenta- tion of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six 3 However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Surinam, pro- vided that they pay for their imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so f o r t h ); up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a month for the support of each member of the remitter's own fam i ly in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands, subject to a l im it of Sur. f. 600-900 a month for a f am i ly un it ( fam i ly remittances up to the same amoun ts to other countries require a license, which is gran ted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each tr ip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the destination;4 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being per- mitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes ( inc lud ing Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely pur- chase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, pro- vided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only af ter favorable advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Hus- bandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regula- 4 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 750 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. 420 tions. Certain exporting companies have received spe- cial permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit, and up to Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liqui- dation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's work ing capital or to have been lent to the firm, and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 pro- vides for additional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli- cation for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fur ther annual transfers are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of fam- i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Surinam accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries5 Surinamese corpo- rate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and Un i ted States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be made for direct investments abroad when it is con- sidered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrow- ing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased over foreign currency sold, but the Central Bank permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dollars corresponding to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sur. f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Sur. f. 180 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 94%ooo.6 Authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Surinam 6 These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1975 this had not yet been done. SURINAM for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus- trial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses 7 issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and indus- trial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1975 No significant changes took place. 7 Import and export licenses are not required since commodities are defined so as to exclude gold. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange and Trade System Swaziland's currency is the Lilangeni (plural ema- langeni), which is at par with the South African rand; Swaziland also uses the rand as its currency, and both currencies are legal tender. No par value has been established for the lilangeni but a central rate of E 1.00 = R 1.00 has been established, and Swaziland avails itself of wider margins. The South African Reserve Bank on December 31, 1975 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.1500 per R 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Swaziland has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a. country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Swaziland also forms part of the Rand Monetary Area which is a single exchange control terri- tory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and, on a de facto basis, Botswana.1 For purposes of exchange control over transactions in securities or gold, residents of a member country of the Rand Monetary Area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Plan- ning controls all external currency transactions; trans- actions with residents of Rhodesia, or involving Rho- desian currency, are prohibited. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Mone- tary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Swaziland's treatment of certain capital transfers to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area may be more liberal. Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted, but applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calen- dar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring coun- tries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Holders of blocked emalangeni may purchase five-year 1 Botswana is not a party to the Rand Monetary Area Agreement of December 5, 1974 and, upon the issue of its own currency, is to be treated for exchange control purposes in the same manner as all other countries outside the Rand Monetary Area. 422 nonresident bonds, the maturity proceeds of which are transferable, five years after purchase, to the currency area of which the holder is a resident. Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any coun- try of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods direct from countries out- side the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Certain exports are subject to licensing, ma in ly for revenues and similar reasons, but most exports are in the first instance shipped free of license to or through South Africa. Changes during 1975 January 24. Swaziland issued the Exchange Control Regulations, 1975. These Regulations, made under the Exchange Control Order, 1974 (promulgated on Decem- ber 30, 1974), together with that Order, replaced the Exchange Control Act, No. 98 of 1949, as amended in 1950 and 1959. There was no change in exchange control policy; under the Monetary Authority of Swazi- land Order, 1974, the Monetary Authority would con- tinue to act as agent for the Government in the admin- istration of exchange controls in accordance with such regulations, instructions, and directives as the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning might issue from time to time. February 5. Swaziland communicated to the Fund a central rate of E 1.00 = R 1.00 and availed itself of wider margins. March 24. Swaziland introduced its own Manual of Exchange Control Rulings for use by authorized dealers. It took into account the terms of the Rand Monetary Area Agreement of December 5, 1974. May 16. The issuance of legal tender gold coins with face values of E 50 and E 100 was gazetted. June 10. Circular No. 6 regulated the position of persons temporarily employed in Swaziland. June 27. It was announced that the Reserve Bank was discontinuing the practice of making small and fre- quent adjustments to its buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars. In fu tu re these rates would be kept con- stant for longer periods at a time and would only be adjusted upward or downward if considered essential in the event of any basic change in domestic or interna- tional economic circumstances. The new policy would be based on a middle rate of R 1 = US$1.40 with the same total spread of l/2 of 1 per cent as before. The Reserve Bank quoted public buying and selling rates of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution US$1.4035 and US$1.3965 per rand. The previous middle rate had been R 1 = US$1.47. The central rate of the lilangeni continued to be E 1.00 = R 1.00. August 1. Circular No. 8 required all applications to remit funds outside the Rand Monetary Area in respect of insurance transactions to be forwarded to the Mone- tary Authority; only payments in respect of foreign currency life insurance policies were excepted. September 22. The Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from R 1 = US$1.40 to R 1 = US$1.15. The Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates were adjusted to R 1. =± US$1.1529 and R 1 = US$1.1471, respectively. No change was made in the exchange rate policy introduced on June 27. The cen- tral rate of the lilangeni continued to be E 1.00 = R 1.00. SWAZILAND 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swe- dish Krona. A central rate of SKr 4.56 = US$1 has been established, and Sweden avails itself of wider mar- gins. Margins of 21A per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Swe- dish krona and the Belgian f ranc, the Danish krone, the deutsche ma rk, the French f ranc, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Norwegian krone. No announced margins are ma in ta ined for other currencies. On December 31, 1975 the buy ing and selling rates of the authorized banks for the U.S. dollar were SKr 4.3950 and SKr 4.41, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Also, they may purchase, spot, f rom foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any foreign cur- rency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). They may sell to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies spot against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. The acquisition by foreign banks or bank ing firms of kronor on Regular Accounts is subject to limitation. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks fo rwa rd exchange transactions covering cur- rent payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding ( 1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services; (2) 24 months in respect of payments for imports, fre igh t, and charter services; and ( 3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Forward exchange transactions covering payments under ( 1) above may be allowed for periods exceeding 24 months a f ter special permission f rom the Sveriges Riksbank is obtained. Authorized banks may under certain conditions conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Forward mar- ket rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.1 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of 1 The Exchange Control Board has 7 members, except when ma t ters a f fec t ing direct investment abroad are to be dealt w i th, in which case it has 11 members. Some members (and their a l te rna tes) are ap- pointed by the Government, and all other members (and the ir alter- nates) by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 424 Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange con- trol regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange con- trol, provided that they are made through the inter- mediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Swe- den: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans- fers f rom other Regular Accounts, with authorized pay- ments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regu- lar Accounts may not result in the creation of abnor- mal balances. Regular Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents af ter emigrating. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Swe- den, proceeds f rom sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for pay- ments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise pur- chases; taxes and other official charges; expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution denominated solely in Swedish kroner and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts2 are held in foreign cur- rencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or f rom other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments 8 All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia. With the main exception of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than ( 1) Japan and (2) Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group are also liberalized. Some imports f rom Japan require licenses. Imports f rom the Republic of China of certain textiles are subject to specific licensing arrangements. Imports f rom certain countries (Hong Kong, India, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, and Singapore) of specified textile products are regu- lated through bilateral consultations. In addition, imports from all sources of certain footwear are subject to global quota. Technically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the con- ditions specified for current payments (see section on 2 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in for- eign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and with interest and debited for author- ized payments in foreign currencies. However, deposits made and interest accrued after June 18, 1974 must be credited to noninterest- bearing accounts. 3 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1976, imports f rom all sources of speci- fied textiles and garments became subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. SWEDEN Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of per- sons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely in respect of both existing and new insur- ance policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, resi- dents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swe- dish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the coun- try. No traveler may, however, without specific permis- sion take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swe- dish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt f rom license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized pay- ments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat- ment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins and unlim- ited amounts of other means of payment. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted only if the investment is considered to promote exports or otherwise to be favorable f rom a balance of payments point of view. Authorization may be con- ditional on foreign financing with an average ma tu r i ty of at least five years. Financing abroad is, however, as a rule not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which give rise to exports from Sweden, investments involving relatively small amounts, or investments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 50,000 for each fam i ly, sub- ject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it; amoun ts up to SKr 75,000 may be approved where a recreational need is clearly established. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigration), he will normally be permitted to trans- fer the remainder of his assets. When Swedish residents emigrate to engage abroad in activities of limited dura- tion, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to SKr 2,000 for each transfer. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts f rom abroad on account of life, pension, and annu i ty contracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capi- tal receipts from abroad only upon approval f rom the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit f rom nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing abroad for periods of at least five years to finance industrial investments in Sweden that are considered to be favorable from a balance of payments point of view is normally permitted. The Riksbank also permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. Borrowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance 426 imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice in the trade concerned. In this context, author- ized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Per- mission for the financing of the export and import trans- actions mentioned above requires that the credits con- form to normal commercial practice. Residents are not normally permitted to extend financial loans to non- residents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad at long term for purposes of on-lending to residents who have received permission to borrow abroad. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are per- mitted to borrow at long term from the parent compa- nies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization f rom the Riksbank; such authorizations are granted restrictively. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandi- navian countries and the International Bank for Recon- struction and Development have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market and the balance of payments were considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- zation, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (minor investments excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such invest- ments, including appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regu- lations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents f rom nonresidents, requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies with the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include certificates or shares issued by investment companies or investment funds (mutual funds) and is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authori- zation buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies from other residents. Subject to individual license, the repurchase abroad is permitted of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner, provided that an affidavit can be pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duced showing either (1) that at no time since Janu- ary 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other simi- lar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) for- eign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank and the types of assets have been listed which the banks may hold within their foreign exchange limits. The ceilings for commercial banks have been fixed so as to enable them to carry out their foreign business. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign cur- rency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresidents' holdings of kronor in Regular Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scien- tific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles contain- SWEDEN ing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for col- lectors or collections. Changes during 1975 January 1. Import duties on most industrial goods of EEC origin were reduced in accordance with the free trade agreement with the EEC. January 1. Additional imports from the state trading countries listed in the section on Imports and Import Payments, above, were liberalized. January 9. The Riksbank announced it had arranged a US$300 million stand-by credit from the Bank for International Settlements. January 10. It was announced in the budget speech that the projected balance of payments deficit would require foreign borrowing by both the public sector and the private sector. February 21. Nonresident Regular Accounts hence- forth could be credited with interest when held by (1) persons who were or had been Swedish citizens or who were descendants of such persons, or (2) foreign nationals who either had been residents of Sweden or owned real estate in Sweden. April 17. The Riksbank announced it had arranged to borrow US$200 million from central banking sources. May 16. The Riksbank asked local authorities not to effect their borrowing abroad through the banks, but to channel it through such agencies as the Municipal Loan Institute. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 17. Import levies were reimposed on sugar and sugar products. July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement. Accordingly, Sweden again observed a maximum margin of 21A per cent for the French franc. October 28. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1976 imports from all sources of certain textiles and clothing would be subject to individual license, for surveillance purposes only. November 5. Imports from all sources of leather and plastic footwear and of rubber boots were made subject to individual license. Such imports were limited by a global quota determined on the basis of average imports in 1972-74. The quota applied to all countries, except certain state-trading countries for which restrictive import arrangements already existed. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND ' (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Council on May 9, 1971 is 47/216 (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The "central rate" for the U.S. dollar fixed on December 20, 1971 was Sw F 3.84 = US$1. The gold parity of the Swiss franc has not been altered accordingly. On January 23, 1973, the Swiss National Bank suspended until further notice its intervention in the exchange market and no announced margins have since been maintained in the market for any currency, although from time to time intervention may occur to maintain orderly market conditions. The market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 was Sw F 2.6200 per US$1. Exchange is controlled in respect of transactions with four countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover certain specific payments with three countries— Cuba, Egypt, and Turkey; Switzerland also controls its payments with the German Democratic Republic, including East Berlin. Official rates are applied to transactions covered by some of these arrangements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in Egypt, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and the application of controlled payments, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the dura- tion of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzer- land and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of capital con- trol, physical or juridical persons (including banks) domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are gen- erally considered by Switzerland as residents, except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, however, Liechtenstein is considered a for- eign country. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Mone tary Fund. 428 Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operation of controlled payments. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and /or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with coun- tries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements with Egypt may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts maintained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. Outside the sector of con- trolled payments, certain settlements with Turkey are subject to special regulations. In all other cases, settle- ments are not subject to regulations involving prescrip- tion of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Cuba, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzer- land. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of the German Democratic Repub- lic, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of Egypt, which are subject to special treatment. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With minor excep- tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricul- tural products and certain fuels. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regu- lations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled pay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; how- ever, payments to the German Democratic Republic (including East Berlin) are controlled.2 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled pay- ments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital f rom countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Trans- fers of capital to other countries may be made freely, with the exception mainly that bank credits and other bank lending to nonresidents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. This applies, inter alia, to foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds and to direct participa- tions by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Furthermore, all proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) in amounts of Sw F 3 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for examination. In addition, issues in Switzerland of foreign bonds denominated in Swiss francs are subject to ceilings. All capital exports denomi- nated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credit) must be converted into foreign currency at the National Bank. Issues by foreign issuers of debt instruments expressed in Swiss francs and having a maturity of less than 12 months are dis- couraged. The same applies to foreign bond issues denominated in Swiss francs in amounts below Sw F 10 million.3 2 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized property. 3 For the application of some regulations, namely, those based on the Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, which does not extend to banks in Liechtenstein, Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country. SWITZERLAND Inward capital transfers are restricted. Some of the relevant regulations make a distinction between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss nationality, the latter usually being exempt from prohibitions or approval requirements even when they have their permanent residence abroad. Physical or juridical persons having their domicile or registered office in Liechtenstein are considered nonresidents for purposes of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. The definition of the terms "for- eigner" and "foreign funds" is not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The physical impor- tation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Borrowing from nonresidents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident physical and juridical persons other than banks requires the prior approval of the National Bank, which is not normally granted; the principal exemptions from this licensing requirement are for borrowing corresponding to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for credits up to Sw F 1 million, if taken up in foreign currency, used entirely abroad, and not converted into Swiss francs. Banks are subject to reserve requirements against the growth and the level of external liabilities (liabilities both in Swiss francs and in foreign currencies); the reserve requirements are different for, on the one hand, deposits made between July 31, 1971 and October 31, 1974, and on the other hand, deposits made after the latter date. Since January 22, 1975 banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits received from non- residents, savings accounts and similar accounts being subject to preferential treatment (see January 22 entry in the section on Changes during 1975, below). Banks must also charge a commission ("negative interest") of 10 per cent a calendar quarter, payable in advance, on all net increases after October 31, 1974 in nonresident- held Swiss f ranc deposits, irrespective of maturity; increases up to Sw F 100,000 are exempt from this commission. The banks have agreed to report daily all spot and forward transactions exceeding US$5 million. They are required to at least balance daily their overall foreign exchange position, as well as their position in each currency separately, short positions in foreign currency being prohibited.4 Banks' forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents with a maturity of ten days or less are limited to 50 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level; for maturities over ten days the limit is 70 per cent of that level.5 The National Bank is empowered to block in noninterest-bearing deposits, for an indefinite period of time, the Swiss franc counterpart of its spot pur- chases in the exchange market; these powers have not been invoked. 4 The reporting of dealers' positions was introduced on Janu- ary 30, 1976. 5 Reduced to 60 per cent at the end of January 1976. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Such permission is also required for the acquisition of real estate by foreign physical persons who have been resident in Switzerland for less than five consecutive years. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; however, the import of gold known or suspected to originate from South Viet-Nam or Cambodia is pro- hibited. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (bars and coins are exempt). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1975 January 1. Under the free trade agreement with the EEC import duties on most industrial goods of EEC origin were further reduced. January 1. The ceiling on net domestic bond issues in the first quarter of 1975, at Sw F 1,100 million, came into effect. The ceiling for the year 1975 would be Sw F 4 billion. January 1. The ceiling on issues of foreign loans denominated in Swiss francs for January-February came into effect, at Sw F 230 million, compared with Sw F 200 million for November-December 1974. The ceiling on placements of medium-term notes by foreign borrowers was Sw F 700 million for January-March. Loans to non- residents subject to authorization would not be permitted to exceed Sw H 500 million during the same period. January 6. For the first time since January 23, 1973 the National Bank intervened in the spot exchange market. January 7. The National Bank asked commercial banks to refrain for the time being from seeking per- mission to issue Swiss franc loans on behalf of foreign public and semipublic bodies, including rollovers of maturing loans. On March 3, this request was with- drawn for issues of foreign states but not local authorities. January 9. The National Bank revised its instruction of November 21, 1974 which had restricted banks' for- ward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents to the level existing on October 31, 1974. Effective immediately, forward contracts with a ma tur i ty of ten days or less had to be cut to 50 per cent of the total amount outstanding with the bank concerned on October 31, 430 1974. Contracts with longer maturities had to be reduced to 90 per cent of their end-October 1974 level by Janu- ary 31, 1975; on January 22, 1975 the latter percentage was reduced to 70 per cent, with effect from Febru- ary 28, 1975. January 9. The Federal Council, acting in agreement with the National Bank, issued liquidity and credit guidelines for 1975. The money supply (Mx) was to be increased by 6 per cent or about Sw F 3 billion, and the monetary base by about Sw F 1.5 billion. The ceiling on the growth of bank credit remained at 7 per cent but was operated more liberally. January 22. The National Bank raised the commis- sion charge ("negative interest") on all net increases after October 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss franc deposits from 3 per cent a quarter to 10 per cent a quarter, effective immediately. Also, the existing prohi- bition on the payment of interest on foreign-held Swiss francs was extended to all nonresident-held Swiss franc deposits, irrespective of when the deposits had been made but subject to any existing contractual obligations, which could not be renewed. This ban on interest pay- ments did not apply to savings accounts or similar accounts, insofar as balances had not increased by more than Sw F 50,000 since October 31, 1974. At the same time, banks were obliged, with immediate effect, to at least balance their overall foreign currency positions daily and the National Bank was empowered to block in noninterest-bearing deposits, and for an indefinite period of time, the Swiss franc counterpart of its spot purchases on the exchange market. January 28. The Federal Council proposed to Parlia- ment to renew the Federal Decree of October 4, 1963 on Swiss participation in international monetary support operations and to increase the amount available for such support operations from Sw F 865 million to Sw F 1.5 billion. The proposal was approved on March 11 and came into effect on July 1. February 7. The National Bank announced that with effect from the end of February the reserve require- ments against the level and the growth of liabilities to nonresidents were being raised by some Sw F 500 million. March 2. In a national referendum certain constitu- tional amendments (Article 31, Section 5) were rejected which were intended to increase the economic powers of the Federal Government and the National Bank. March 3. The minimum maturity of export credits eligible for an exchange rate guarantee was reduced from one year to three months. This measure was valid initially for six months and applicable only to exports of consumer goods to countries whose currencies were deemed important in Swiss foreign trade. March 3. The ceiling on foreign loans in Swiss francs was raised to Sw F 300 million for March-April and that on note issues by foreign borrowers to about Sw F 1 billion for January-March; private placements of notes for the conversion of earlier issues became exempt from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the ceiling but not from the approval requirement, and the requirement was revoked that of issues authorized prior to July 26, 1974 a specified proportion must be placed with residents. The ceiling on credits to nonresi- dents subject to authorization remained at Sw F 500 million for January-March. The max imum size of indi- vidual foreign loan issues was increased f rom Sw F 70 million to Sw F 80 million. The mandatory conversion at the National Bank of Swiss f ranc credits and Swiss franc issues henceforth could be made as soon as the Bank approved the capital export. March 13. The arrangements for domestic bond issues in the second quarter were announced. Such issues would no longer be subject to a ceiling. March 17. With effect f rom April 1, the banks' obli- gation to at least balance their fore ign currency posi- tions daily was applied to their position in each currency separately. March 20. With effect f rom April 1, commercial banks, by virture of a gentlemen's agreement, had to report daily to the National Bank all spot or forward exchange transactions exceeding US$5 m i l l ion; similar arrangements were entered into w i th nonbanks engaging in foreign exchange transactions. The agreement, which was to expire on December 31, was extended until June 30, 1976. March 26. The Federal Council announced that the introduction of a turnover charge on foreign exchange transactions was under consideration. March 26. The Federal Council authorized the National Bank to negotiate the accession of Switzerland to the European common margins arrangement. On November 19 the Council announced that the negotia- tions were being suspended for the time being. April 11. The National Bank reduced the reserve requirements on the level of commercial banks' foreign liabilities by about Sw F 300 million, with effect from the end of April. April 18. To assist, in particular, the exports of the watch, textile, and shoe industries, the National Bank stood ready to rediscount export bills of exchange, at 1.0 per cent below the official discount rate; these bills could have a life of up to six months and would be taken up for the last three months to maturity. Banks were to charge exporters no more than 2.5 per cent in excess of the afore-mentioned rediscount rate applied by the National Bank. April 23. The National Bank stated that the liquidity and credit guidelines for 1975 would be maintained when on May 1 the ceiling on the growth of bank credit was lifted. April 30. The Federal Council prohibited the import or depositing in Switzerland of any gold shipped from South Viet-Nam or Cambodia. Exemptions could only be granted by the Ministry of Finance and Customs. May 6. The Government submitted to Parliament a proposal to increase the coverage of the export risk SWITZERLAND guarantee from 85 per cent to 95 per cent of the amount of export orders. Parliamentary approval was given in June and the measure came into effect on July 1. May 15. The National Bank announced that it had raised the ceiling for May-June 1975 on public foreign loans to about Sw F 350 million, following actual approvals of Sw F 340 million in the period March-April. Un t il fur ther notice, ceilings would no longer be placed on capital exports in the form of medium-term private placements and of credits subject to authorization; their ceilings for the period January-March had been Sw F 1 billion and Sw F 500 million, respectively. May 28. The National Bank reduced by about Sw F 400 million the reserve requirements against banks' foreign liabilities, with effect from the end of May. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions was renewed for one year. June 1. The National Bank and commercial banks operating in the field of long-term export financing concluded a two-year agreement under which the former offered rediscounting facilities for export credits of at least Sw F 30 million with a maturity of three years or more. June 8. In a national referendum the extension until October 1977 was approved of the Federal Decree on the Protection of the Currency of October 1971. June 16. The exchange rate insurance facilities for exporters were improved. Additional types of risk could be covered, as well as nine additional currencies; previ- ously, only deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, and U.S. dollars could be covered. Exchange rate losses of less than 3 per cent or less than Sw F 1,000 per order were not covered. The maximum guarantee would be 95 per cent of claims, subject to Parliamentary approval (see June 17, below). The new facilities came into effect on a trial basis for six months. June 17. Parliament approved an increase in the export risk guarantee from 85 per cent to 95 per cent of the amount of the export order. June 27. A commercial treaty with the German Democratic Republic was signed. Upon entry into force, settlements would be placed on a convertible currency basis; the clearing arrangements expired on Decem- ber 31, 1975. July 8. The National Bank set the ceiling for July- August on foreign loan issues in Swiss francs at Sw F 400 million. July 28. The Federal Council sought a five-year extension beyond December 31, 1975 of its authority to control the credit sector (i.e., the emergency provisions that enabled the National Bank to impose minimum reserve requirements and credit ceilings and to regulate bond issues on the domestic marke t). The proposals were amended by Parliament in December and were to be subject to a national referendum in 1976. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND August 1. Restrictions on the acquisition by nonresi- dents of real estate in many resort towns were eased by an amendment to the Lex Furgler. August 7. The National Bank disclosed plans to con- trol foreign exchange trad ing more closely through a licensing requirement for all foreign exchange dealers. The plans were not implemented dur ing 1975. September 2. The National Bank set the ceiling for September-October on foreign loan issues in Swiss francs at Sw F 400 million. September 26. The Federal Council announced its intention to replace the emergency decree authorizing the National Bank to engage in forward foreign exchange transactions by an amendment to Article 14 of the Na t ional Bank law which would grant the National Bank permanent powers to conduct such operations. October 28. The National Bank instructed banks to further reduce their forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents with a ma tur i ty in excess of ten days, from 70 per cent to 60 per cent of the amount ou ts tand ing on October 31, 1974, by Janua ry 31, 1976. Forward sales with a ma tu r i ty of ten days or less remained limited to 50 per cent of their October 31, 1974 level. October 28. The National Bank and the Swiss Bank- ers' Association extended for six months their gentle- men's agreement of April 18 on the rediscounting of export bills for consumer goods. For certain trade bills, the banks agreed to lower their charge from 2.5 to 2.0 percentage points above the rediscount rate applied by the National Bank. November 3. The ceiling on foreign bond issues in Swiss francs in November-December was set at Sw F 400 million. (An identical ceiling was later fixed for January-February 1976.) December 7. In a national referendum a law was approved regulating the import and export of processed agricultural products. The Confederation was empow- ered to levy surcharges on imports of such products. In addition, export subsidies could be granted. December 10. The Federal Council decided to use the proceeds from the commission ("negative interest") on nonresidents' Swiss franc deposits to cover losses arising f rom the export risk guarantee program. December 12. The National Bank tightened the supervision over private placements of notes denomi- nated in Swiss francs, notably those on behalf of foreign borrowers, by requiring (1) that at least 60 per cent of the sums involved be placed with the issuers' traditional customers, (2) that issuers do not undertake inter- mediary transactions, and (3) that syndicates be limited to no more than ten banks. These rules were to apply to domestic as well as foreign issues. 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 37, 1975) Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. In principle, there are two exchange rates, the official rate and the parallel rate, but since July 18, 1973 these have been unified. Since March 22, 1974 the exchange rates for the U.S. dollar have been LS 3.65 buying, and LS 3.70 selling, per US$1; exchange rates for other currencies are quoted on the basis of these rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in international centers. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of %o of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Government through the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements1 be obtained in the cur- rency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" currency,2 or in any other convert- ible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Repub- l ic ,-Nor th Korea, Sri Lanka, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Settle- ments with Bulgaria and the German Democratic Republic were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect from Janua ry 1, 1976. 2 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, Egypt, the Gulf states, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Proceeds from exports to Egypt may be obtained in "acceptable" banknotes. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 3 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents and residents who have activi- ties abroad may also keep accounts in foreign currencies in the Syrian Arab Republic, but only if these accounts result f rom an inflow of capital; transfers abroad from these accounts are made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel rate and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are com- pletely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rhode- sia, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machin- ery) are imported only by state trading agencies (includ- ing the successor organizations to SIMEX) or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports are divided into two main categories: ( 1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products, and some less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (2) all other goods. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in payments agree- ment countries through compensation transactions involv- ing the export of Syrian industrial or mineral products. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the coun- 3 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC try of origin, without the intermediary of any firm con- ducting a business established outside the Syrian Arab Republic; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. Certain consumer goods that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported from the Federal Repub- lic of Germany or the United States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the quality higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders. The state trading agencies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. (Exempt from import license, by virtue of Order No. 338 of September 17, 1973, are certain commodities when imported by specified monopoly holders; these include coffee, tea, tobacco, sugar, salt, and rice, when imported by the TAFCO agency.) Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited List) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian Arab Republic with some of these countries. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for with their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import licenses, which cannot exceed the value of LS 100,000 (except for capital goods), the importer must provide evidence of his foreign exchange holdings abroad on Decem- ber 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a documentary letter of credit is opened at the Commer- cial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the fu ll amount with his foreign exchange. Licenses to import specified consumer goods, raw materials, and semifin- ished goods, up to a value of LS 24,000 for a 12-month period, are freely granted to traders and industrialists whose activity is certified by the Chamber of Commerce or by the Chamber of Industry. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are not prohibited are permitted with- out a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less (LS 10,000 per year per importer for the public sector). There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: ( 1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent; (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which 434 the tar iff rate is more than 1 per cent; (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the ta r i f f; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f; (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian ha rbo rs ); and (6) an ocean tax of 2Ao of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made at the parallel rate by letters of credit, time draf ts, or bills for collec- tion, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tempo- rary resident account. However, importers are not granted foreign exchange if they postpone the transfer un t il more than a week after the due date of the bill or d r a f t. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. The Commercial Bank of Syria then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is currently not required. Payments for Invisibles The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All payments for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the parallel rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out fore ign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a t r ip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tun is ia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tun i s ia ), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. For travel to payments agree- ment countries 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on official business). On depar- ture, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the parallel rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international mis- sions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresi- dents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leav- ing the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatria- tion commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered to the Commer- cial Bank of Syria at the parallel rate, with the excep- tion that the proceeds of cotton and petroleum exports must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the offi- cial rate; as noted above, the two rates have been unified since 1973. Certain manufactured exports receive subsidies f rom the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of (cid:2)l/2 per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those from other invisibles at the parallel rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Nonresi- dents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers take place at the parallel rate. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Special facilities for investment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic are pro- vided by Legislative Decree No. 348 of December 29, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 1969. Other facilities permitting residents and nonresi- dents of any nationality to open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic with imported funds are based on Decree No. 779 of April 1, 1970 and Order No. 191 of April 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their s taffs. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 regulates the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab States in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not without prior approval be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Exports of gold are subject to export licensing, while imports are exempt from import licensing. Import payments require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1975 During the year, there were virtually no changes in the exchange or trade control regulations other than those resulting from the termination of certain bilateral payments agreements. Restrictions on imports, how- ever, were fur ther relaxed on a de facto basis. The offi- cial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar remained unchanged in 1975. January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the bilateral payments agreements with Poland and Romania, settlements with those countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. April. The abolition of import and export licensing requirements in trade with Jordan was agreed. In August, it was also agreed with Jordan to abolish border taxes. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria and the German Democratic Repub- lic expired. With effect from January 1, 1976 settle- ments with these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling. A central rate of T Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Tanzania avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Tanzania's rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calcu- lation of the U.S. dollar/SDR rate. On December 31, 1975, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was T Sh 8.25 per US$1. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government and wkh autho- rized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except Uganda banknotes) against Tanzania shillings at par. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Com- merce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the ma in land, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Commerce and Industries. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applica- tions for commodities the importation of which is con- fined to specified parastatal organizations must be sub- mitted through the respective parastatal organization. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by the state trad ing agencies (B izan je and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents normally must be made either in con- vertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Certain proceeds must be received in specified currencies.1 Remittances to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated nonresident accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspe- cified nonresident accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments to residents of foreign countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any for- eign currency (other than Rhodesian and South Afr ican cu r rency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania, and for authorized purchases of foreign currencies f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Imports originating in Kenya and Uganda are in principle unrestricted but some require specific licenses and others may only be imported by or on behalf of specified parastatal organi- zations. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice, 1975 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require spe- cific licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan pro- vides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. Most goods may nor- mally be imported only by or on behalf of specified parastatal organizations. All imports to the mainland f rom Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports from metropoli- tan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports in to Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufactured goods when imported from and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import payments normally not being granted until after customs clearance. Most suppliers' credit requires the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified xThe specified currencies are listed as Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canad ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f ranc s, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwa i ti d ina rs, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tan- zania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administra- tively by the Bank of Tanzania. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens work- ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania even- tually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33% per cent of their monthly salary uncommitted to cover f am i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33% per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified cate- gories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons mak ing uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). The basic exchange allocations for tdurist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Dividend remit- tances to nonresident shareholders and fam i ly remit- tances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, all Portuguese territories, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organiza- tions and of certain other products are subject to con- trols and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All princi- pal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania, and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months from the date of exportation and must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shilling notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remit- TANZANIA tances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount will be considered for repatriation. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- t ion) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Tanzan ian securities f rom residents on a recog- nized East A f r ican stock exchange, provided that pay- ment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by resi- dents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts f rom residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate w i th in Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler are subject to indi- vidual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1975 March 1. Imports of automotive spare parts were confined to the State Motor Corporation. April 2. Imports valued at less than T Sh 20,000 (previously T Sh 10,000) were exempted from preship- ment inspection. June 12. The importation by the private sector of raw materials which could be obtained locally was suspended. Foreign exchange authorizations for certain other private sector imports were given to firms only on condition that they would export a certain portion of their production. June 17. The export tax on coffee was reduced to 12 per cent. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA October 27. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The central rate was changed from TSh 7.14286 = US$1 to T Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1. Tanzania continued to avail itself of wider margins and the U.S. dollar continued to be the intervention currency. The exchange rates for the currencies of Kenya and Uganda remained unchanged. The initial middle rate for the U.S. dollar was T Sh 8.16. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0368331 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht, corresponding to B 20.00 = US$1, and Thailand avails itself of wider margins. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. On December 31, 1975, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.375 buying, and B 20.425 selling, per US$1; on the same date, the authorized banks' rates for tele- graphic transfers were B 20.35 buying, and B 20.45 selling, per US$ 1. The authorized banks' rates for other currencies are based on their buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York and London rates for such currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All out- going payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen ts ); certain inward capital trans- fers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur- rency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; payments are made largely in U.S. dollars or in sterling and related currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans- ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts in- clude proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and funds that cannot be identified as eligi- ble for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht f rom Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are sub- ject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods pro- duced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceed- ing nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$630, or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, additional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. The amount of foreign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for fam i ly remittances is US$200 a mon th for each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for each trans- feror for other countries. Amoun ts above these l im i ts are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly trave l ing on one passport) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a f am i ly traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists, however, may take out without prior authorization up to US$2,000 a person in foreign banknotes and coins, or such higher amount as they may have declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an indi- vidual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other com- modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for ship- ments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station and, with m inor excep- tions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate is intended to assure repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an authorized agent w i th in 7 days of receipt; their surren- der must take place w i th in 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days af ter the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum orna- ments up to any value but require a certificate of expor- tation to take out any other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. 1 These include gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most fo rms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. 440 Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an author- ized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a f am i ly traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on l i fe insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and. gifts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange f rom inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the pur- pose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferen t ial treatment under Notice No. 227 of the Na t ional Executive Council (issued October 21, 1972); this trea tment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatria- tion. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Cer- ta in economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. Such approval also is required for accepting foreign currency deposits, bor- rowing foreign currency, or assuming any form of indebtedness in foreign currency. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to fac i l i ta te approval of outward remittances. The pub- lic sector requires the approval of the National Eco- nomic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Commercial banks must report daily to the Exchange Equalization Fund and to the Bank of Thailand both their foreign exchange transactions and their foreign exchange positions. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any fo rm are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offer ing the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this pre- m ium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. In 1974 and 1975, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution however, no license was awarded for the importation of gold bullion. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while those of gold ornaments, when not effected by foreign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. Foreign tourists may without a certificate of exportation take out gold ornaments up to any value. The conveyance of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1975 January 23. The ban on private trade with the Peo- ple's Republic of China was lifted. February 19. Exports of most types of confectionery and sugar syrup became subject to license. March 5. Exports of petroleum gas became subject to license. March 25. Commercial banks were required to report daily to the Exchange Equalization Fund their foreign exchange transactions as well as their foreign exchange positions. March 31. Ministerial Regulation No. 17 was issued. It modified the regulations governing inward capital transfers by subjecting to prior central bank approval the acceptance of deposits in foreign currency, the bor- rowing of foreign currency, and any form of indebted- ness in foreign currency, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification. May 17. Exports of all types of yarn ceased to require a license. June 3. Export premiums on most types of rice were reduced. June 30. As a result of the enactment of the Action Trade with State-Trading Countries B.E. 2518, dated January 4, 1975, Notice No. 6 of the Competent Officer was issued to cancel the prescribed method of trade THAILAND payment with the People's Republic of China and Inner Mongolia. July 5. Imports of certain vinyl chloride monomers became subject to license. August 12. Imports of used motorcycles again became subject to license. August 12. Oils used in mixing paint ceased to require a license. September 25. Exports of coral became subject to license. October 1. Imports of coconut oil became subject to license and were prohibited. October 25. Exports of certain polyester fibers ceased to require a license. November 5. The amount of foreign currency that residents departing for travel abroad could take out without prior exchange control approval was increased from US$140 to US$250 a person ( f rom US$280 to US$500 for a family traveling on a single passport). The amount of foreign currency in banknotes and coins that transit passengers and tourists could take out without prior authorization was set at US$2,000 a per- son, unless a higher amount had upon entry been reported to customs in writing; previously, such travel- ers could take out any amount of foreign exchange with- out prior authorization. November 18. Trade with Laos was suspended. November 19. The Exchange Equalization Fund's spot buying rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from B 20.325 to B 20.375. The selling rate remained unchanged at B 20.425. As a result, the commercial banks' buying rate for the U.S. dollar was changed on November 20 from B 20.30 to B 20.35 per US$1. December 4. Export premiums on rice were further reduced; for some grades the reduction was 50 per cent. December 11. Trade with Cambodia was resumed. December 26. Exports of gunny bags and hessian cloth made of ju te yarn ceased to require a license. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commis- sion of %o of 1 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill on transfers to countries outside the Union.2 Exchange rates for foreign curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle finan- cial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between offices of the BCEAO. 442 Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Oper- ations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspon- dent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of Portuguese or South African origin are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and destined for commercial purposes. Imports f rom all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned milk, soap, salt, corrugated iron, and iron rods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or one month before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted by a general authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten); any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, and work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, or up to CFAF 50,000 per transfer. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Mone- tary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry 3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent 3 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs; and (2) for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign cur- rency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. TOGO of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn up in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portugal and South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phos- phates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other commodi- ties. The due date for payments for exports to foreign countries cannot be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account country; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain such foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Oper- ations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resi- dent travelers must within eight days sell to an autho- rized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks they bring in in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions them- 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and those other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. There also are special controls appli- cable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Econ- omy.4 Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance works abroad or by approved international merchanting 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in cer- tain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any for- eign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans consti- tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lend- ing abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accor- dance with their importance to the economic develop- ment of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965, as amended by Ordinance No. 2 of January 10, 1973) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1975 July 10. France resumed its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA f ranc and the French franc remained unchanged. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trini- dad and Tobago Dollar, and Trinidad and Tobago avails itself of wider margins. However, a fixed relationship with sterling is maintained of TT$4.80 = <£ stg. 1. On December 31, 1975, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (inclusive of exchange charges) were TT$237.056 and TT$238.363, respectively, per US$100. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it stands ready to deal with the commercial banks in foreign cur- rencies as well as the rates at which the commercial banks must operate with the public in these currencies in transactions not exceeding TTSlOOjOOO.1 For transac- tions in excess of TT$ 100,000 the commercial banks are required to quote rates to the public not less favor- able than those fixed by the Central Bank for smaller transactions. Foreign exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above and are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward trans- fers; on December 31, 1975 the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks were l/2 of 1 per cent on outward transfers and nil on inward transfers. Ster- ling exchange transactions through commercial banks are subject to varying exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity (East Caribbean dollars) and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an arrangement with the monetary authorities concerned the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to import payments to certain officials of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compulsory 1The currencies for which the Central Bank quotes daily rates are Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, in addition to Barbados dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and East Caribbean dollars. surrender of foreign cu r rency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas pay- ments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regula- tions continues to be regarded as a country of the Over- seas Sterling Area. In practice, settlements with resi- dents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made only in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling f rom an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified cur- rency 4 other than Rhodesian currency. Special regula- tions apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian dollars, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO External Account sterling or any other foreign cur- rency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the Sterling Area to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trini- dad and Tobago, or proceeds f rom the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be rein- vested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; and (2) all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. The import and customs regulations include prohibi- tion or stringent control, state trading, individual licens- ing, and open general license arrangements. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Firearms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Certain food products are covered by the Agri- cultural Marketing Protocol of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) Treaty (Schedule VIII of the Annex). Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.5 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an indi- vidual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan- nels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 446 Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. All imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted reasonably freely on a case-by-case basis for imports from these countries of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. For imports from these countries, a "negative" list is published which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within CARICOM.) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry and with due regard to any obligatory restrictions arising from the requirements of international commodity agreements or other factors. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no discrimi- nation is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, with the exception that CARICOM commitments are taken into account. Import licenses, where required, must be obtained before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are con- cerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for for- eign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisi- bles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Exports of certain listed goods require an indi- vidual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petro- leum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued, at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, in response to applications. General licenses have been issued, for example, to permit petroleum com- panies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by resi- dents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigra- tion allowances are approved up to specified limits; fu r- thermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Certain international institutions may be permitted, on a case- by-case basis, to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is per- mitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after Janu- ary 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. Foreign exchange is not norma l ly provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, w i th the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Tr in idad and Tobago do not discriminate between na t iona ls and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros- pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any cur- rency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment) or, alter- natively, that if any loss is involved it can be justified in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incen- tive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. This provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer indus- tries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being con- ducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu ture development. Every pioneer manufac turer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and Tobago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency ( inc lud ing sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (1) The right will not norma l ly apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital invest- ment project. (2) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must ma in ta in the monthly aver- age of its net foreign exchange position within a speci- fied quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act, 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an au tho r- ized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an authorized bank; and ( 3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for num isma t ic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is admin- istered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958 (as amended). Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferential duty) or 15 per cent (general du ty ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential du ty) or 25 per cent (general d u t y ); but see December 31 entry, below. Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1975 January 1. A graduated levy was introduced on exports of sugar. December 1. The Central Bank Act was amended. The power to determine the parity of the currency was transferred f rom the Minister of Finance to the Cabinet. December 10. The duties imposed in October 1974 on imports of garments manufactured outside the CARICOM area were reduced; most of these items con- t inued to be subject to specific license. December 31. Trinidad and Tobago's Common- wealth tariff preferences expired. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tuni- sian Dinar, and Tunisia avails itself of wider margins. However, since January 23, 1974 the Central Bank of Tunisia has established daily buying and selling rates for foreign currencies in light of quotations abroad. The Central Bank quotes 19 foreign currencies.1 The buying and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. On Decem- ber 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for U.S. dollars were D 0.4232 and D 0.4274, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Directorate of Trade of the Ministry of National Economy which, in collaboration with the Central Bank, establishes im- port quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank l or in convertible Tunisian dinars through the Foreign Accounts of residents of those countries. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settle- ments between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. There is an inoperative payments arrangement with India. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of nonresi- dent foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad, and with authorization in the names of Tunisian non- residents. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by Tunisian residents to the holders of the accounts, with dinar proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of checks, travelers checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder, with interest on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In addition, the Central Bank quotes banknote rates for all of these currencies, except the Moroccan dirham, as well as for CFA f rancs, Kuwaiti dinars, Luxembourg francs, Mali francs, Qatar riyals, and U.A.E. dirhams. Dinars; all other credits require prior authorization. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any for- eign currency from the Central Bank. These accounts may bear interest at the same rates as resident-owned demand and time deposits in dinars. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established under the same conditions as Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresident, with foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank to the debit of a For- eign Account in Convertible Dinars or for payments authorized by virtue of Notice No. 90, and with the proceeds from the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other credits require prior authorization. The accounts may be debited for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, and for any transfer abroad or the remittance of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of any physical person of foreign nationality. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian national- ity or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain condi- tions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange or of the contractual or advance redemption of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belong- ing to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain condi- tions, these accounts may be debited freely for the pur- chase of Tunisian securities, participations in Tunisian companies, and the acquisition of real estate. Irrespec- tive of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be debited freely for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 50 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 1,000 for each fam i ly a year, and balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 and /or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 may be transferred abroad. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents (comptes INR) are intended mainly for physical persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA requires the approval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts (comptes INRE) may be credited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38, which provides for certain export incentives. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of credit- ing all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents that are awaiting either their utilization in Tunisia for speci- fied purposes or the approval of the Central Bank for their transfer abroad or their transfer to other nonresi- dent accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authoriza- tion of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Govern- ment or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his family up to D 50 a person a week and not exceeding D 1,000 a year for any one family. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 and /or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Most other debits to these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian physical or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency imported by the account holder. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the following does not apply to these countries. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods from the French Franc Area require an import authorization from the Directorate of Trade and a payments authoriz- ation (on form X2) from the Central Bank. Imports of nonliberalized goods from other countries require an import license from the Directorate of Commerce and the visa of the Central Bank; in issuing the license, the Directorate obtains the opinion (avis technique) of the competent ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country under special procedures, as follows. Certain spare parts and a few other commodities may be imported free of license against the presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer, and imports required by manufacturers for their own use or by 450 certain official agencies are licensed under annual import authorizations. Moreover, manufacturing indus- tries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, and playing cards. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, etc.). Imports by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrange- ments applicable to private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, or an import license, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involv- ing payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a num- ber of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved freely, provided that they are properly docu- mented. These include various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, brokerage, and charges and profits related to transit operations) and payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising from contractual obli- gations to nonresidents. Approval is also given for remittances of profits and dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for commissions, customs duties, and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for pub- licity expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Physical persons and enterprises producing for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may freely make certain payments for invisibles; amounts credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 in convertible dinars may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allo- cation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under t en ); f rom January 1, 1977 the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The alloca- tion for study abroad is D 90 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. Foreign nationals employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of their net basic wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of D 150 a month if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia.2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits laid down in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Unless Central Bank permission is obtained, the recon- version of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100, where the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not, there is no limitation on the recon- version. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Nonliberal- ized exports require an export authorization when sold to the French Franc Area and an export license when sold outside that Area. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days after shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatria- tion occurs within 30 days following shipment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Resident manufacturing industries that produce exclusively for export and are covered by Law No. 72-38 may have credited to Busi- ness Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972, nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises (i.e., enter- prises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent 2 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. TUNISIA through the import of convertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt from the require- ment of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. However, there are certain EFAC facilities (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declara- tion upon entry. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain certain benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) of June 26, 1969 and by Law No. 74-74 of August 3, 1974. These include a number of tax facili- ties as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972 provides for various spe- cial benefits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises, including an exemption from the repatriation require- ment in respect of export proceeds. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left before August 1970;3 D 4,000 for those who left after August 20, 1970 but before December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1973; and D 10,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1974. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Gifts or the proceeds from inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval from nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form. By virtue of Law No. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars. Only dentists and 3 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreement with Egypt, settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 1. The system of Foreign Accounts in Bilat- eral Dinars was terminated, all bilateral payments agree- ments having been abolished. January 11. A Central Bank circular was issued deal- ing with the opening of Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars in the names of Tunisian nationals working abroad. January 22. Circular No. 75/9 was issued simplifying the application procedure for outward transfers. It also dealt w i th payments for imports. February 5. Note No. 3631 to authorized banks was issued dealing with transfers of rents. February 8. Notice No. 116 of the M in is t ry of Na- tional Economy was published; it con ta ined a list of goods that could no longer be imported on an import certificate. A correction to this Notice was published on August 29; it deleted certain items f rom the list. February 14. Circular No. 75/14 prescribed the repatriation of the proceeds f rom services performed for nonresident physical or juridical persons. March 28. The list of bilateral quotas for imports from France dur ing 1975 was published. The com- modities and the individual quotas were the same as for 1974. An amendment to the list was published on July 25. April 2. Circular No. 75/23 dealt with the resale of foreign currency brought back by resident travelers. April 11. Quotas for imports in the period January 1- August 31, 1975 from EEC countries (including France) were published. On October 31, quotas for such imports during the year 1975 were published. May 9. The global import quotas for 1975 were pub- lished. The quotas covered 17 items, one of which, sugar, was not on the list for 1974. June 10. Circular No. 75/43 dealt with the recon- version of dinar proceeds from foreign currency imported by resident travelers. July 7. Circular No. 75/46 was issued to facilitate and speed up the repatriation of exchange receipts by authorized banks. July 15. Exchange Control Notice No. 132 modified Notice No. 117 and eased the regulations regarding Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies. There also were m inor changes with respect to the operation of Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. August 1. Circular No. 75/54 fixed the rate of debit interest on Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies. October 3. Circular No. 75/70 supplemented Cir- culars Nos. 74/56 and 75/9 and Instruction No. 420. October 22. Circular Note No. 75/72 dealt with the domiciliation of repatriation commitments. October 24. Circular No. 75/73 dealt with the financ- ing of citrus exports. November 3. Circular No. 75/74 established the 1975 exchange allocation for pilgrimages. A related circular (No. 75/78) was issued on November 13. November 28. Circular No. 75/82 dealt with the application of Circular No. 72/06 regarding the grant- ing of means of payment to resident travelers. On December 31, a Central Bank circular was issued on this subject. December 9. Central Bank Circular No. 75/87 eased the restrictions on the use of balances in Capital Accounts and Suspense Accounts. Physical persons of foreign nationality holding such accounts were author- ized, as an exception, to transfer abroad balances of D 2,000 or less. December 24. Circular No. 75/93 dealt with pay- ments to and receipts from Morocco. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira. A central rate of LT 14 = US$1 has been established, and Turkey avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since July 8, 1975, however, Turkey has not main- tained prescribed margins around the central rate. On December 31, 1975 the official rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 15.00 buying, and LT 15.30 selling, per US$1.1 The Central Bank also establishes from time to time official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies.2 Pending the enactment of new legislation to eliminate interest payments on remittances by Turkish workers resident abroad, Turkey maintains a separate nominal rate for these, though the resulting effective exchange rate conforms to the official buying rate. Workers' remit- tances are converted at a buying rate of LT 11.2503 per US$1; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account with a bank in Turkey, the account is immedi- ately credited with an additional 33!/3 per cent of the amount converted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Min- istry of Commerce, which is also in charge of the preparation of import programs. The Ministry of Com- merce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Minis- try, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require prior approval of the competent ministry, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organi- zations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Com- merce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Com- merce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the pro- fessional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 3 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements 1 Changed to LT 15.50 buying, and LT 15.81 selling, on March 15, 1976. 2 Including Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 3 Albania, Egypt, and U.S.S.R. The agreement with Albania is inop- erative. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral coun try. The pay- ments agreement with Egypt expired on April 20, 1976. with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible cur- rencies; proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe 4 must be received in the currency of any country in this group. Nonresidents (including Turkish workers abroad) are permitted to open demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in con- vertible Turkish liras or in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited; imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forbidden, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All com- mercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within six months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchants), industrialists (manufac turers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applica- tions through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when granting such certificates. However, exporters, mine operators, ship- owners, building contractors who have undertaken the construction of state establishments, tourist establish- ments, and registered manufacturers are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Indus- try, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the pro- visions of import programs, which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two cate- gories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas published annually. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; cer- tain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has * Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY bilateral payments agreements;5 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. Certain imports from member countries of the EEC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the EEC and are free of quantitative restrictions; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to author- ized banks, which transfer them to the Ministry of Commerce (or other public authority indicated) for examination and prepare the import licenses and forward these to the Central Bank for approval on the Ministry's instructions. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the m in is t ry concerned is also required. There are special arrangements administered by the Ministry of Commerce to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and sup- plementary materials required for export production. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for industrialists. Quotas for indus- trialists are allocated annually and those for private commercial importers three times a year. Imports on the quota list can be subdivided into two broad categories — imports wh ich do not, and imports which do, require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for quota imports w i th in the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the Central Bank for imports not requiring a permit, and by the M in is try of Commerce (on the advice of the responsible au thor i ty) for those requiring a permit. Some of the quota imports also require a certificate confirming that the articles are not manufac tured by local indus try and do not exist in the local market in sufficient quan t i ty and qua l i ty; the required certificate is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which may delegate authority to the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Registered importers have to submit their applications for goods not requiring a permit through an authorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce du r ing the first month of each semester. Upon examina- t ion of applications, the Ministry of Commerce instructs the Central Bank to issue a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for four months, and an import license must be secured f rom the Central Bank within the period of validity of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Appli- cations for imports against industrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Commerce in April of each year. Applications for quota imports requiring a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body each semester by importers and 5 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quo ta lists f rom nonpayments agreement, non-OECD countries, the Ministry of Commerce takes the balance of trade and payments with these coun- tries into account. 454 each year by industrialists. Upon examination of the application, the M in is try of Commerce instructs the responsible body to issue a foreign exchange allocation valid for four months, but not longer than one month beyond the period of effectiveness of the quota list. An import license must then be secured f rom the Central Bank du r ing the period of validity of the exchange allocation. Under a system of pre-import price control, which has been suspended but not abolished, imports are to be made at the best ruling world market prices. For this purpose, whenever the system is reinstated, a certificate must be obtained from the Office of Price Registration and Control af ter issuance of the import license or the certificate of foreign exchange allocation. However, public sector imports of goods on liberalized list I may be authorized by the Central Bank without a price con- fo rm i ty certificate. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). When the pay- ment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local currency, at the time of application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. For payments against documents or against goods, importers and industrialists are required to prepay half of the value of the imports with the application for an import license; this requirement, how- ever, has been suspended. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange transfer w i th in four months f rom the date of the import license for payments against documents and within two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Imports f rom bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. These are established only for com- modities that appear on the liberalized or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the M in is try of Commerce on a monthly basis. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 20 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable,6 and for items on list II, 10 per cent; for imports under global quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import application is payable for goods on importers' quotas, and 2.5 per cent for industrialists' quotas and export manufacturers.7 6 For fertilizers, ammonia, and breeding animals, the rate is 1 per cent. 7 A deposit of 50 per cent applies to items on list I and to items not on any list and not requiring a permit of the Ministry of Commerce, when imported under the Transitional Agreement with the EEC; items included in list II and those requiring permission f rom the Ministry of Commerce when imported under that Agreement require a deposit of 20 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a nonpayments agreement country, but a rate of 10 per cent is applied to quotas which are not included in industrialists' quotas to be fixed by the Ministry of Commerce for agreement coun- tries and all of the quotas indicated in the listed import quotas for which there exists no control authority. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, how- ever, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to converti- ble currency countries on ly ), or 10 per cent (on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee depos- its collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conform i ty with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit correspond- ing to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury.8 Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the M in is try of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs au thor i t ies, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain condi- tions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommerc ia l) use goods and machinery with a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of LT 3,000, in add i t ion to personal effects. Separate limits and conditions app ly to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instru- ments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and conditions vary with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Companies or coopera- tives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily work- ing abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machin- ery for their personal or fam i ly use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis 8 The 1976 import program was published on J anu a ry 7, 1976. Total imports in 1976 were programmed to be US$4,450 million, compared with US$4,000 million for 1975. This included US$2,900 million for liberalized goods, US$1,450 million for quota goods, and US$100 million for imports f rom bilateral paymen ts agreement countries. In addition, US$550 million was set aside for se lf-f inanc ing imports outside the import program. No changes were introduced in import procedures, and the deposit requirements also remained unchanged. TURKEY under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign compa- nies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allo- cation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Import of an automobile 9 without payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish na t iona ls who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish resi- dents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the t ime of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under cer- t a in conditions, but they must be exported after three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the M in is try of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. With these exceptions, automobiles and any other commodities that have been imported duty free may not be sold to residents. In add i t ion to customs duty, imported goods are sub- ject to the following charges: ( 1) a customs surcharge (mun ic ipal tax) of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a s tamp duty of 9.0 per cent or 9.5 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of com- mod i ty ;10 (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and cus- toms clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax rang ing generally f rom 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, 9 Au tomob i les are not included in the import program. 10 The s tamp du ty is 10 per cent for imports f rom countries that are not members of the GATT, and 100 per cent for imports made by special permission but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Regime, and similar legislation and regulations. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administra- tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' pay- ments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The t rans fer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural na ture) may be granted transferab i l i ty between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals resid- ing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to three trips a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel (except for persons traveling on a collective passport) is the equiva- lent of US$600 a calendar year; travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carry ing at least the equivalent of US$200 in foreign exchange (US$100 for persons under 18 years of age and the purchase of this amount is not manda tory). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to less than US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fa irs, athletic meets, and so fo r th, and personal business) is sold up to specified lim- its. In addition, persons who can certify that it is neces- sary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to pre- sent a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports des- tined to bilateral countries,11 exports of a few commodi- ties to any destination,12 re-exports irrespective of desti- nation, and temporary exports require an export license 11 Exports of specified perishables to these countries are authorized by the customs offices; export licenses must be delivered to customs w i th in five days of export. 12 Cereals, certain minerals such as mo lybdenum, wo l f ram, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, fertilizers, cattle, meat, timber, textiles, and paper. 456 in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Commercial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at intervals by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of prices obtaining in domestic and foreign markets. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days f rom the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export a speci- fied list of commodities on 12-month credit terms, how- ever, against payment in convertible currency and sub- ject to a bank guarantee. Forward sales may be made on ly when payment is to be received in convertible cur- rencies; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or products are exported.13 There are basically six rates of refund; reduced rates of refund apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries, and other goods exported to these countries do not qualify for a tax re fund. Other tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings f rom income and corpora- tion taxes and the exemption of export goods from the production tax ( for foreigners). Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates f rom a special export fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized in s t i tu t ions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to sur- render any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank w i th in ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi- dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer w i th in three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Turkish workers abroad are sold to the Central Bank at a special rate, which on December 31, 1975 was LT 11.2503 per U.S. dollar; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33V6 per cent is immediately credited to the account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum resulting in an effective exchange rate on December 31, 1975 of LT 15.00 per U.S. dollar. The amounts deposited plus the interest can be w i thd rawn at any time. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles w i th a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travel- ers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited 13 The export rebates on raw cotton and livestock were abolished on J a n u a ry 7 and J a n u a ry 18, 1976, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Resi- dents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments (No. 6224) or the Petroleum Law (No. 6326, as amended), foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for invest- ment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such fore ign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey, but special facilities exist for borrowing f rom the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferable under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sales proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons, insofar as the property is not covered by Law No. 6224 or Law No. 6326. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized w i th in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 9,000 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 5,000 for certain relatives. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tour- ist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, f rom which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' investment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the TURKEY Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived f rom these credits have to be blocked again and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agree- ment, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industries or in other indus tr ies earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enter- prise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the coun- try, or will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the com- panies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between for- eign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. By virtue of a policy statement of December 1971, Turkish participation in new foreign investments no longer is subject to a mini- mum of 51 per cent. In addition to investments under Law No. 6224, foreign investments outside the petro- leum sector may be made "under the monetary regula- tions," in which case the investor does not enjoy any transfer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition by Turkish workers abroad of Turkish shares and bonds. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Nonresidents (including Turkish workers abroad) are permitted to open interest-bearing demand and time deposit accounts in convertible foreign currencies with authorized Turkish banks. Nonresidents may also open demand and time accounts in convertible Turkish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank, with authorized banks. Authorized banks with deposits exceeding LT 2 billion are permitted to incur an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central B ank ); this position must not be less than US$5 million and not more than US$25 million,14 but the positions to be maintained by individual banks are determined by the Central Bank. With the exception of borrowing by the Government f rom foreign governments or government agencies and f rom international institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad f rom private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is up to the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the prevailing domestic interest rate. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that, with certain exceptions, such credits must not amount to more than 60 per cent of the total cost of a project, their ma tu r i ty must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the Euro-dollar rate (the London Interbank Offered Rate —LIBOR) by more than 1.75 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pre- sented for m in t ing by the State Mint. Imports of gold are free, provided that it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1975 During the year the export rebate scheme was extended to cover virtually all industrial export products, as well as certain agricultural products. January 3. The 1975 import program was published. Total imports in 1975 were programmed to be US$4,000 Reduced to US$5 million in March 1976. 458 million, compared with US$3,036 million for 1974. This included US$2,250 million for liberalized goods, US$1,225 million for quota goods, and US$100 million for imports from bilateral payments agreement coun- tries. In addition, US$425 million was set aside for imports outside the import program. No major changes were introduced in import procedures, and the deposit requirements also remained unchanged. The validity of import licenses was increased from five to six months. January 5. Trade and cooperation agreements were signed with the Libyan Arab Republic. January 9. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China expired. February 12. A special fund was established to cover losses on export transactions arising from exchange rate changes. The fund was operated by the Central Bank. February 19. Authorized banks with deposits exceed- ing LT 2 billion were permitted to incur an overall for- eign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central B a n k ); this position could not be less than US$5 million and not more than US$25 mil- lion, but the positions to be maintained by individual banks were determined by the Central Bank. Banks in this category could freely accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents (including Turkish workers ab road ), irrespective of ma tur i ty, but provided that the interest paid did not exceed the corresponding Euro- currency rate by more than 1 per cent. Banks could lend the foreign exchange to physical and juridical per- sons ( inc lud ing public sector agencies) in Turkey for use in importing capital goods and raw materials for invest- ment purposes. In certain circumstances they could also extend lira loans against the foreign currency deposits. Further regulations were issued by the Central Bank on March 3 and March 13. March 1. The State Economic Enterprises were authorized to borrow up to US$500 million in the Euro- currency market during fiscal year 1975. March 22. The rate of tax rebate on exports of cot- ton yarn and cotton textiles, which had been reduced in 1974, was raised from 10 to 25 per cent; later in 1975 it was fu r ther increased to 30 per cent. March 25. The annual foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was reduced from US$800 to US$600 a person. April 3. The final deadline for the termination of nonresident-held time deposits in convertible Turkish liras expired. However, time deposits with maturity dates going beyond the deadlines specified for the d ifferent end-uses of the counterpart domestic bank credit were permitted to run their full term. April 17. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed f rom LT 13.850 buying and LT 14.127 selling, to LT 14.00 buying and LT 14.28 selling, per US$1. May. Certain administrative delays occurred in the procedures for import payments. Most of these delays were eliminated in June. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 8. Nonresidents were again permitted to open Convertible Lira accounts. Authorized banks were in this way permitted to borrow in the Euro-currency market, on behalf of resident customers, without restric- tion, provided the interest rate did not exceed the inter- bank rate in the country concerned by more than 1.75 per cent and subject to a maximum interest rate of 9 per cent. June 9. Decree No. 7/10062 suspended the Interest Equalization Fund. June 11. A trade agreement was signed with the German Democratic Republic which provided that pay- ments were to be placed on a convertible currency basis on the date of signature. July 4. Exports to the part of Cyprus under Turkish administration became eligible for export tax rebates. July 7. A new export credit facility was introduced. Loans in the form of convertible currency equivalent to up to 1 per cent of the net income in convertible currency dur ing the previous year, but not exceeding US$50,000, could be granted to finance-marketing activi- ties. In addition, new exporting companies could receive a grant of up to US$5,000 in convertible currency f rom the Central Bank for the same purpose. July 8. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 14.25 buying and LT 14.535 selling, per US$1. July 10. The limit on export credit for fresh fru i ts and vegetables and for fishery products was raised by 100 per cent. July 11. Any Turkish citizen who had worked in a foreign country for at least one year was allowed to import, duty free, an automobile of a value of up to LT 30,000 ( f .o .b . ). Where the time spent abroad was longer than one year, this limit was increased by LT 2,500 for each additional year. Also, a number of items were added to the list of goods Turkish emigrant workers could import. In addition, such workers wish- ing to purchase with convertible currency earned abroad any stocks or bonds denominated in Turkish liras of TURKEY certain private or public enterprises were entitled to receive additional securities equivalent to 25 per cent of the face value of the stocks or bonds purchased. July 17. The list of goods subject to export licensing was revised. July 21. The pre-export price control system was abolished. July 21. Turkey informed the Fund that, as from Ju ly 8, 1975, it would not for the time being maintain prescribed margins around the central rate. July 26. Measures were taken to prevent excessive mar i t ime freight charges on imports and exports. Imports were to be shipped, in principle, in Turkish vessels. The measures were revoked in September. July 31. Exporters were allowed under certain condi- tions to obtain f rom commercial banks credits for up to six months equivalent to the full value of goods to be exported. In certain cases, credits in foreign currency were also permitted. August 9. The August 1973 list of commodities on which customs duties were temporarily reduced or sus- pended was revised. Textile products were deleted and some 30 items (mostly foodstuffs and raw materials) were added. August 14. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 14.50 buying and LT 14.79 selling, per US$1. August 28. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 14.75 buying and LT 15.0405 selling, per US$1. August 29. Agreement was reached to terminate the bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia; set- tlements were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect from November 1. September 16. Tax rebates on exports were increased and extended to additional goods. October 28. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 15.00 buying and LT 15.30 selling, per US$1. November 28. The temporary exemption from cus- toms duties on certain iron and steel products (in effect since January 1975) was withdrawn. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling. A central rate of U Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1 has been established, and Uganda avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies l other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; its rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar/ SDR rate, and its rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are based on the previous day's New York rates against the U.S. dollar. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies 2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York, except for Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward with customers in ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export con- tract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry and the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade (UABT) under the External Trade Act (as amended) and by the Bank of Uganda. The Minister of Commerce and Industry has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East A f r ican currency area but exchange control is applied to both Kenya and Tanzania. Under Uganda's exchange control regulations, the three countries are referred to as the Scheduled Territories. Prescription of Currency Uganda has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Ster- ling Area. All payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected in the currencies of those countries through accounts held with each other by the central banks concerned. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 460 may be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas te r r i to r ies ), or Rhodesia may be made to an External Account in any Sterling Area country, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the coun t ry of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), or Rhodesia may be obtained in Uganda shillings f rom an External Account, in any Sterling Area specified cur- rency from an External Account, or in any other speci- fied currency that is not a Sterling Area currency. Pay- ments to Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain settlements w i th Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are chan- neled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely w i th all authorized pay- ments to such Sterling Area countries by Ugandan resi- dents, w i th transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, w i th transfers from External Accounts, and w i th the pro- ceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Ugandan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for trans- fers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area coun t ry has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda sh i l l ings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), or Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non- Sterling Area currency (other than Israel, Portuguese, or Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authori- ties in a Sterling Area country has been obtained, Exter- nal Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individ- ual permission, such balances may also be used for pay- ments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. All Blocked Accounts must be held with the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments All permitted imports require approval by the UABT. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for rea- sons of public policy; imports prohibited for other reasons include passenger automobiles, cotton fabrics, blankets, electrical home refrigerators, transistor radios, and matches. Import license applications are screened by eight specified companies, which are supervised by the UABT. A Cabinet Committee under the Ministry of Finance periodically considers the recommendations of the UABT in light of the availability of foreign exchange as notified by the Bank of Uganda, and makes block allocations which are divided and distributed by the specified companies. Licenses for raw materials are issued in the name of the UABT for the account of the importer. The National Textile Board has a monopoly over the importation of most textiles; there also are state import monopolies for certain other commodities, includ- ing motor vehicles. Upon approval of the application, the importer must lodge a commission of 1 per cent of the amount of the license with the UABT. All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in Africa are not being licensed. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of origin. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tan- zania are subject to transfer taxes. Import payments normally are made under letters of credit opened in the name of the UABT for the account of the importer; the latter generally must make full pay- ment to the authorized bank before the letter of credit is opened. Documentary evidence showing that the goods UGANDA have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months from the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Portugal (and its overseas territories), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 3,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign bank- notes. The allowance is available for travel to any coun- try except Kenya and Tanzania, for which normally holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person a year are available, and Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried non- citizens recruited from outside East Africa may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. No foreign exchange is released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33% per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by travel- ers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. All exports to Israel, South Africa, the Portuguese- controlled territories in Africa, and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected within six months of exporta- tion and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA prohibited, except that returning Ugandan residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes and foreign currency travelers checks. granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resi- dent in Uganda which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident out- side Uganda. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 outside the facilities for remittance of savings. A fu r ther transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anni- versary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or held on deposit with commercial banks in Uganda; such funds become transferable af ter five years. The income from such investments is transferable also during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; to secure guaranteed repatriation, how- ever, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in speci- fied types of production require approval under the East African Industrial Licensing Act and the Uganda Licens- ing Act, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and distributed by com- panies operating in Uganda are in principle transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a g i f t, to any country more than U Sh 100 a year without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1975 May 30. The issue of foreign currency notes to hold- ers of nonresident accounts required prior exchange control approval. June 12. Import duties were introduced or increased on a large number of items. Virtually all goods not already subject to duty became subject to a duty of 10 per cent ad valorem, the main exception being plant and machin- ery for processing and manufac tur ing industries. August 21. The regulations on nonresident accounts were amended. A minimum balance of U Sh 500 was required to open an account. Whenever any nonresi- dent account had not been operated for two years or more, it had to be closed. Banks were also reminded that all overdrafts on nonresident accounts required prior approval. October 27. The currency was repegged from the U.S. dollar to the SDR. The central rate was changed from U Sh 7.14286 = US$1 to U Sh 9.66000 = SDR 1. Uganda continued to avail itself of wider margins and the U.S. dollar continued to be the intervention cur- rency. The exchange rates for the currencies of Kenya and Tanzania remained unchanged. The initial middle rate for the U.S. dollar was U Sh 8.16. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System On February 23, 1974, the United Arab Emirates established an initial par value of 0.186621 gram of fine gold per U.A.E. Dirham, corresponding at the time to Dh 1 = SDR 0.21 or US$1 = Dh 3.9720. The U.S. dollar parity has since been maintained unchanged. The United Arab Emirates avails itself of wider margins. The United Arab Emirates Currency Board establishes daily quotations for 18 currencies.2 The rate of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the dirham is fixed daily at the discretion of the Board within the limits of the wider margins. Rates for other currencies are fixed in relation to the U.S. dollar/dirham rate and the previous day's closing rates in New York. The Board deals with commercial banks, rulers of states, governments, and quasigovernment institutions. On December 31, 1975 the Board's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Dh 3.9920 and Dh 3.9960, respectively, per US$1. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. The United Arab Emirates has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by resi- dents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign com- panies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for moral, health, or security reasons. Virtually all other commodi- ties may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodity or commodities specified in his license. Certain commodi- ties (mainly rice, sugar, and flour) are imported by the state trading company, which, however, does not have an import monopoly in any commodity. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel and South Africa. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported freely, with- out an export license, to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts from current invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Transactions and settlements involving Israel or South Africa, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capi- tal invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remit- ted freely. Gold With the exception noted below, residents and nonresi- dents, including private persons, may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without an individual import or export permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade, like that of any other commod- ity, may only be undertaken by licensed parties. Transac- tions involving Israel, South Africa, or companies black- listed by the Arab League are prohibited. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. 1The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwan, Ras al-Khaimah, and Fujairah. 2 Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, rials Omani, pounds sterling, Qatar riyals, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Changes during 1975 During the year, 11 currencies were added to those for which the Currency Board issues daily quotations. January 1. In Abu Dhabi, imports of many goods, and of currency and bullion became exempt from cus- 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES toms duty. Duty on all other imports (except alcoholic beverages) was fixed at 1 per cent. February 1. The Currency Board imposed a two-year moratorium on the licensing of new foreign banks. November 3. The Currency Board requested banks to terminate all transactions with customers in South Africa, and not to open any letters of credit or effect any transfers except under prior contracts. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling. Since June 23, 1972, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the pound within announced margins, and therefore all transac- tions in the official exchange market, except those in currencies ma in ta in ing a fixed relationship with sterling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing selling and buy ing rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1975 were US$2.0230 and US$2.0236 per <£!, respectively. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, except Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the inf lu- ence of market forces; transactions with resident cus- tomers may be entered into only for approved pur- poses, where there is an underlying commercial contract (or where an exporter is tendering for an over- seas export con trac t), and in the currency of the con- tract. There is also a market (referred to as the investment currency ma rke t) in which certain foreign currency proceeds,1 resulting ma in ly f rom the sale outside the Scheduled Territories (the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Republic of Ire- land,2 and G ibra l tar) of foreign currency securities held for portfolio investment purposes,3 and of most personal residential property situated outside the Scheduled Terri- tories may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market; at the end of 1975, that premium was about 60 per cent calculated at the ruling U.S. dollar rate in the official exchange market, the middle closing rate on December 31 being <£! = US$1.2396. These funds are normally available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities, for approved purchases of personal residential property in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, and, although little used for this purpose, for approved direct invest- ments in non-Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and w i th residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and 1 Under the U.K. exchange control regulations, foreign currency comprises all currencies other than the currencies of the United King- dom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. 2 The U.K. regulations re fer to Ireland as the Republic of Ireland, and for the purpose of this survey the U.K. usage is being followed. 3 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities payable or optionally payable in a cur- rency of a country other than the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Sterling securities are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency. The term "securities" includes certifi- cates of deposit and treasury bills. coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory In general, the United Kingdom does not impose restrictions on exchange transactions or payments and receipts between residents of the United Kingdom and residents of the Scheduled Territories. Exchange control applies mainly to transactions with residents of coun- tries outside the Scheduled Territories. For adminis- trative purposes, the non-Scheduled Territories are divided as follows: (1) the other member countries of the EEC, except the Republic of Ireland; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Territories;4 (3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries, usually referred to as the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST ). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is admin- istered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requir- ing exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts f rom Scheduled Territories may be obtained in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; those from other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, must be in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Territories may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; payments to other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, may be made by crediting * The OSA thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, Solomon Islands, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert Islands, Grenada, Guyana, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Malta, Mauritius and Dependency, N au ru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, South West Africa (Nam ib ia ), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu (Ellice Islands), Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM sterling to an External Account or in any foreign cur- rency except Rhodesian currency. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; authorized payments for exports f rom the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rho- desia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally per- mitted only for living expenses within the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of resi- dents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers between Scheduled Territories no U.K. exchange con- trol permission is required; for payments to other coun- tries by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the author- ized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see below), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with authorized banks in the United Kingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Scheduled Territories, with transfers f rom other Exter- nal Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (includ- ing bankno tes), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Scheduled Territories. External Accounts may be debited, subject to general or special permis- sion, for payments to residents of the Scheduled Terri- tories, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including banknotes) or gold. 466 Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers f rom External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968; payments by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the terri- tory concerned; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of for- eign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the discount or ma tu r i ty proceeds of U.K. treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered customs in the United Kingdom, (4) insur- ance and freight charges resulting f rom permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Territory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased husband's employment, (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi, (8) matur- ity proceeds of certain endowment insurance policies, and ( 9) expenditure in gathering news material. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their fam i l ies; authorized purchases of U.K. sterling securi- ties to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories for ( 1) interest on and repayment of out- standing personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions f rom Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U.K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of prop- erty in the United Kingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) living expenses, educational fees, and incidental expenses, (d) insur- ance premiums and capital and annu i ty payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding <£250 for any one payment, to individuals and religious, medical, educational, and charitable orga- nizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds provided the person was a member of the fund before November 11, 1965 or before taking up residence in Rhodesia after that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Payments in respect of educational and medical expenses in Rhodesia also are permitted. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and f rom Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not normally allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rho- desian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, (2) used within specified limits for living expenses in the United Kingdom of residents of Rhodesia and certain other personal pay- ments, or (3) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U.K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is given for resi- dents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase U.K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Per- mission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian or foreign currency securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived from the immediate sale proceeds of other Rhodesian or foreign currency securi- ties, respectively. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pen- sions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and pensions due from Rhodesia to resi- dents of the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and most parts of the OSA are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet educational payments in the United Kingdom, the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for account of per- sons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes countries outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia 5 are divided into eight groups: the Mediterranean Area,6 the Non- Community Area,7 the Non-CEFTA Area,8 the Dollar 5 All goods f rom Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not normally granted. 6 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Greece, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. 7 The Non-Community Area comprises all countries other than EEC member states. 8 The Non-CEFTA Area comprises all countries other than EEC and non-Community EFTA member states. UNITED KINGDOM Area,9 Japan,10 Romania, the Eastern Area,11 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia are admitted under an Open General Import License with- out restriction, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1975:12 (1) from all other countries, seven com- modities or groups of commodities;13 (2) from the Dollar Area only, three commodities or groups of com- modities; (3) from Japan only, certain textiles; (4) from the Non-CEFTA Area only, one commodity; (5) f rom Romania only, two commodities; and (6) from the Eastern Area only, nine commodities or groups of com- modities. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EEC regulations. Once licensing requirements have been met to import from countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General Import License or some other form of license, U.K. residents may purchase foreign currency or credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of pay- ment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England where the payment is considered necessary or in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Current administrative practice is not to allow advance payments for consumer goods. Ex- change control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories; neither are they required for payments to residents of other coun- 9 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 10 Japan will ultimately cease to be treated as in a category by itself. 11 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and Berlin (Eas t ), Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and also Romania. 12 During 1976 temporary quota restrictions will apply to spun cotton yarn from Portugal and Spain and to fabrics made of man-made fibers f rom Portugal. Surveillance licensing, under which licenses are not denied, will apply to imports from the Non-Community Area of most textile commodities, color television receivers, color television tubes, portable monochrome television sets, and electronic calculators. 13 Cocoa and cocoa preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Cocoa Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals and most primary whale products also cannot be imported under the Open General License from any source. The restrictions on cotton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM tries, unless the payment represents part or final settle- ment for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £5,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control authorization, which (except for pay- ments to residents of Rhodes ia)14 is granted freely for all purposes other than sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resident in non- Scheduled Territories outside the OSA, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding ,£1,000 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles with- out any limitation, and for other categories up to estab- lished limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital out- flow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay- ment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories (except to Rhodesia), U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equivalent of .£300 a person a trip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £40 a day up to a maximum of £2,000 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Eng- land unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Travel exchange purchased in the United Kingdom must normally be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrangements agreed with certain banks, per- sonal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to £30 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resi- dent travelers may take out up to £300 in foreign currency notes. Any unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency may be retained for a period of one 14 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardship and to remittances of a continuing na tu re by charitable, religious, medical, and educational organizations for both current pur- poses or to meet capital expenditure in the educational and medical fields. Small personal gifts are also permitted where humanitarian grounds exist for the purpose. 468 month from the date of return to the United Kingdom. Banks have authority to approve applications by U.K. residents who wish to open foreign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel funds for use during their stay abroad. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months from the date of issue or for one month from the date of return to the United Kingdom, if later. In addition, resi- dent travelers may take with them up to £25 in U.K. and other Scheduled Territory banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expendi- ture; but those traveling direct to the Republic of Ire- land, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man may take out any amount. Visitors to the United Kingdom are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £25 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appro- priate documentary evidence of the amounts due, appli- cations to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all incidental expenses arising from the education of U.K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of foreign currency at a rate of up to £ 10 a day with a maximum of £300. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are normally issued only for the permitted exceptions (medical and educational supplies, food- stuffs where these are special medical preparations, newsfilm and photographs, and documentary and printed matter less than 100 years old) and for equip- ment for the essential replacement needs of the Rho- desian Railways and the Central African Power Corpo- ration. Virtually all exports to other destinations are free of export control and no exchange control forms are normally required. Exporters to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must normally obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment; special exchange control permission to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months without cover from the Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained cur- rency account (subject to supervision) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients of such currencies have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities held for portfolio invest- ment purposes and the sale of personal residential prop- erty situated outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase of marketable foreign currency securities, the purchase of personal residential property outside the Scheduled Territories, or the making of approved direct invest- ments outside the Scheduled Territories; they may also sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purposes. If permission is not forth- coming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in foreign currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must norma l ly be sold to an autho- rized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.15'16 In certain circumstances, residents of the United Kingdom who have obtained exemption from their obligations under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denominated in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency may obtain permission for the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be sold for sterling in the investment currency market up to 75 per cent of the amount concerned.17 In certain circum- stances, exempted cash balances arising from the sale of property may also be sold as investment currency. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial owner- ship of residents of other Scheduled Territories. All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Each indi- 15 Where currency is received f rom the sale of residential real estate by residents of other Scheduled Territories, permission may also be given for such funds to be regarded as investment currency. 10 The f u ll amount of the foreign currency proceeds is normally per- mitted to be sold as investment currency when the whole of a residen- tial property is sold which has been held for pr iva te use; when it has been held as an investment, however, the proceeds are not normally eligible to be treated as investment currency. 17 Such exemptions may be granted to persons who possess the nationality or citizenship of a coun try which is outside the Scheduled Territories and, in some circumstances, to fo rmer residents of OSA countries who do not possess such nationality or citizenship. UNITED KINGDOM vidual resident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts or personal loans not exceeding a total of «£ 1,000, or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to residents of the OSA, as well as a further £300 or the equivalent to residents of other countries outside the Scheduled Terri- tories except Rhodesia; additional amounts may be allowed under appropriate circumstances. The cash gifts allowance is noncumulative and is not transferable f rom one resident to another. A resident of the United Kingdom with dependents who are established residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may make payments from his own resources not exceeding <£2,000 a year to support those dependents. Such payments, which may be gifts or loans, are outside the cash gift scheme and do not prejudice the normal cash gift allowances. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means, except to relatives, or other Rhodesian residents where human i ta r ian reasons are given, to the extent of £75 du r ing any period of two years. For direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories, official exchange is normally made available only for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U.K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 mon ths and to continue thereafter; this benefit will norma l ly occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign cur- rency receipts that would not take place without the investment. For such projects ("super-criterion" proj- ec ts), official exchange may be made available up to $250,000 or 50 per cent of the total investment, which- ever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the invest- ment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an over- seas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. Direct investment other than for super-criterion proj- ects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fall directly upon the U.K. official foreign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the United Kingdom by way of benefits arising f rom the investments; such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment currency, the export free of pay- ment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company, by approved profit retention, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorganization. The permitted proportion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one third of net earnings after taxes, applied, if desired, on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is involved. The purchase outside the Scheduled Territories of marketable foreign currency securities for portfolio in- vestment must be financed either with investment cur- rency or with foreign currency borrowing. Such bor- rowing is freely permitted when under taken by or through U.K. professional security managers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this manner is exempt from the "25 per cent requirement" until the loan portfolio is liquidated and the profit repatriated. Purchases of marketable foreign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositaries. Pur- chases f rom other residents may also be effected with sterling on The Stock Exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency p r em i um ). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or an apartment for personal use in countries outside the Scheduled Territories requires specific approval and must be made either from another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory currency, or from a nonresident of the Scheduled Ter- ritories with investment currency or borrowed foreign currency; payment for attendant expenses and improve- ments, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. (As an exception to this rule, residents temporarily employed in the OSA or member countries of the EEC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommodation at current official market rates of exchange.) Approval is normally limited to one prop- erty a fam i ly; purchases of investment currency are normally limited to reasonable amounts and may be made before exchange control approval is received pro- vided that the funds are held by an authorized depositary and that a formal application is lodged to purchase the property within six months. The approval au thor i ty for amounts up to <£ 30,000 for a residential property has been delegated to authorized banks. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets ( inc lud ing direct in- vestments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories other than residents of Rhodesia are remit- table at the official market rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; capital payments under life and other insur- ance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies are also authorized freely. 470 Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure f rom the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sched- uled Territory nationals or citizens, other than Rhode- sians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom re tu rn to take up residence in any country outside the Scheduled Territories) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official market rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories and the OSA except Rhodesia are allowed on departure to transfer for a fam i ly unit up to £5,000 through the official foreign exchange market (£20,000 for older persons) and may export any foreign currency secu- rities they hold; the rema in ing declared assets in excess of £5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a nonresident. U.K. residents taking up residence and employment in member countries of the EEC, however, may, with specific approval, transfer sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange in excess of the £5,000 l im it where this is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the employment in question. For emigration to the OSA, the basic settling-in allow- ance is £20,000 (with a similar concession for those tak ing up employment), also available at the official market rate of exchange, and holdings of foreign cur- rency securities are exportable. During the four-year period the restricted funds may be disposed of for foreign currencies other than Rhode- sian currency through the investment currency market, may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on The Stock Exchange, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market, or may be used, with general or specific permission, to meet certain expenses in the United Kingdom. After the four-year period any remaining assets are transfer- able in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the transfer at the official market rate of exchange is normally allowed. The participation of foreign capital as a direct invest- ment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an ap- proved manner of payment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be sur- rendered at rates ruling in the official market unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases involving the take-over of existing companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are normally, unless ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling f rom an Ex- ternal Account or in foreign currency (other than Rho- desian currency) and, where nonresidents (other than residents of the EEC and the OS A) have a controlling interest, on any subsequent finance being provided in foreign currency or External Account sterling at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. The acquisition in any manner by any person not resident in the United Kingdom of 10 per cent or more of the ou ts tand ing shares of a company registered in the United Kingdom requires prior ex- change control approval. Nonresident firms and individuals must obtain per- mission f rom the Treasury in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of nonresident companies are required to obtain consent before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. U.K. residents also need permission to lend to U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents. Such permission is normally given for sterling lending for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of m anu f a c tu r ing capacity except for companies whose activities are re- garded as bringing special advantages to the U.K. econ- omy. There are three important exceptions to these principles: ( 1) Unlimited sterling finance in the United Kingdom is norma l ly allowed to U.K. companies in which any nonresidents have less than a controlling interest, except to companies which are purely vehicles for portfolio investment. (2) U.K. companies controlled by residents of the EEC or the OSA that are not purely vehicles for portfolio investment are no rma l ly allowed un l im i ted sterling finance for their operations anywhere in the United Kingdom. (3) U.K. companies controlled by residents of any non-EEC country outside both the Scheduled Territories and the OSA are upon application allowed similar facilities in respect of new expenditure in the areas of the United Kingdom which qualify for special government assistance (the assisted areas), while their requests in respect of new expenditure in other areas of the Un i ted Kingdom are considered on their merits. U.K. banks are prohibited f rom providing sterling loans or overdrafts to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for the purpose of financing trade between non-Scheduled Territories, but sterling lending to residents of the OSA to finance trade with such non-Scheduled Territories is unrestricted. Borrowing by U.K. residents f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to finance expenditure in the United Kingdom is subject to restrictions. Private sector U.K. residents other than authorized banks normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency f rom non- residents of the Scheduled Territories for conversion into sterling for use in the United Kingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Scheduled Ter- ritories, unless the term of borrowing is at least two UNITED KINGDOM years; exporters, merchants, and certain commodity traders are, however, permitted to borrow foreign cur- rency for shorter periods f rom authorized banks or from nonresidents to finance their sales or, in some cases, stockholdings. Public sector bodies normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency unless the term of the foreign borrowing is at least five years. Autho- rized banks must not lend foreign currency to U.K. residents other than authorized banks for any other purpose w i thout prior reference to the Bank of England. U.K. companies normally are not permitted to borrow External Account sterling f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories unless the term of the borrowing is at least two years. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositaries, transactions in securities of most types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the Un i ted K ingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on The Stock Exchange. Residents are norma l ly permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds ( inves tment currency) in marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for certain approved direct investment or approved pur- chases of property for private use outside the Scheduled Territories. When foreign currency securities are sold by residents on The Stock Exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian cu r rency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" in foreign cur- rency securities may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement in respect of transactions on the "book" but not in respect of sales of securities held as investments. Investment currency held for a continu- ous period of 6 months normally ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the fo rm of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian cu r rency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the 6-month period, sold to an autho- rized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Investment currency may norma l ly be retained as investment currency for a maxi- mum of 12 months, af ter which period any amount rema in ing must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign ex- change market.18 18 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (w i th up to six months to run before final ma tur i ty) or in six-month treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money-market paper (including certificates of deposit) without incur- ring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Professional security managers acting on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day bor- rowing of foreign currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign cur- rency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not pre- vented by the U.K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on The Stock Exchange, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U.K. authorities. Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on The Stock Exchange against payment in foreign currency or in sterling from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on The Stock Exchange for settlement in foreign currency or, in cer- tain circumstances, for settlement in sterling excluding the investment currency premium. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United King- dom other than on The Stock Exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Non- residents other than Rhodesian residents may sell ster- ling securities in the United Kingdom for sterling which may be held on External Account or, alternatively, may be transferred abroad at official market rates. Most transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England; subject to certain conditions, however, autho- rized banks may approve applications by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell sterling securi- ties on The Stock Exchange. Except in respect of U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories (where Bank of England consent is required), warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities regis- tered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addresses outside the Scheduled Territories. These warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. 472 Authorized banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business. They may also switch such deposits into ster- ling on a covered basis. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in foreign currencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold In the United Kingdom gold bullion and gold coins are subject to control. Exemption under the Exchange Control Act, 1947 exists for: (1) the buying, selling, lending, and borrowing of gold coins minted in or before 1837; (2) the buying and selling of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the United Kingdom, if the seller is a person resident in the United Kingdom and is not selling on behalf of a person resident outside the United Kingdom; and ( 3) the borrowing and lend- ing of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the United Kingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are persons resident in the United Kingdom. Transac- tions both in gold coins not exempted above and in gold bullion may only be undertaken with permission. Per- mission is normally given for the use of gold bullion for genuine industrial and professional purposes. The sale of gold bullion for the manufac ture of gold coins, gold medals, etc., is prohibited unless specially authorized. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate in the United Kingdom. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. Gold coins minted after 1837 or gold medals, medal- lions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions and manufactured af ter 1837 are subject to individual import licensing, and such licenses are nor- mally given only to authorized dealers in gold. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. The export of gold bullion and of post-1837 gold coins to Gibraltar and the Republic of Ireland is not normally permitted except with the approval of the local control authorities. Authority has been given to autho- rized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non- Scheduled Territory resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign currency. A license is required from the Department of Trade for the export of gold (and other) jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufac- tured form over 100 years old and valued at £4,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade. Manufactures of gold other than medals, etc., manu- factured after 1837 may be imported without quantita- tive restriction under Open General Import License f rom all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among ( 1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories, and (3) residents of the OSA who are sellers of new production. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of 1A of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. Authorized banks may enter into forward transactions in gold w i thout prior permis- sion from the Bank of England. Banks may also finance purchases of gold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories by lending foreign exchange and accept gold as collateral for advances in foreign currencies or Ex- ternal Account sterling to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Changes during 1975 In addition to the changes listed below, certain changes in quantitative import regulations were made in accordance with EEC decisions and directives; most of these related to textiles, beef and veal, or electronic calculators. January 1. The third reduction of 20 per cent in import duties on goods originating in EEC member countries took place. January 1. Existing restraint arrangements for the import of all textiles from quota-controlled sources were continued for the first quarter of 1975. January 1. The licensing arrangements for the first half of 1975 for imports of cotton yarn originating in, or consigned to the United Kingdom from, Turkey or Greece came into effect; on July 1 they were extended to the end of the year. January 1. The restrictions on exports of ferrous scrap and of reusable and rerollable steel products to member states of the EEC were removed. Exports to other destinations remained subject to individual licensing. January 15. The Bank of England reminded banks that specific exchange control permission continued to be required for any sale of sterling securities which would result in a nonresident acquiring directly or indi- rectly 10 per cent or more of the voting rights in a U.K. company or increasing an existing holding beyond that level. January 21. Licenses ceased to be required for ex- ports of coal, coke, and solid fuels. January 22. Restrictions were imposed on the refi- nancing in sterling of bills for trade originally contracted and financed in foreign currency, except for trade to or from the Scheduled Territories. The rules concerning UNITED KINGDOM guarantees in favor of residents of the OSA were also tightened. January 29. Authorized banks were empowered to approve certain specified payments in respect of resi- dents of Rhodesia which had previously required appli- cation to the Bank of England, as follows: (1) from Rhodesian Accounts and Suspense Accounts in respect of expenses incurred outside the United Kingdom by residents of Rhodesia, e.g., educational and medical expenses, economy class air fares from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia, and living expenses of persons aged 65 or over; and (2) from Suspense Accounts to meet expenditure in the United Kingdom incurred by residents of Rhodesia in respect of the maintenance of property, educational, medical, or living expenses, insurance premiums, and charitable donations or gifts to residents of the Un i ted Kingdom. Authorized banks were also permitted to redesignate the accounts of persons who leave Rhodesia to take up residence in the Scheduled Territories. January 29. Authorized banks could approve appli- cations by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell on The Stock Exchange sterling securities issued in the United Kingdom, subject in the case of purchases to the securities being registered in the name of a U.K. authorized depositary or their U.K. nominees and the certificate of title being held by the U.K. authorized depositary concerned, and in the case of sales, subject to the proceeds being withheld in suspense. January 31. A new Industry Bill was published. Among other things, it would empower the Government to prevent the transfer of control in a U.K. manufactur- ing company to nonresidents if it considered that this would be contrary to U.K. interests. The bill received Royal Assent on November 12 and came into force on November 20. February 20. It was announced that the ECGD would be enabled to offer exporters of capital goods under fixed-price contracts partial insurance against cost esca- lation. Cover would be available for contracts with an ind iv idual value of £2 million or more and involving a manu fac tu r ing period of two years or more. The scheme, which would not be available for exports to member states of the EEC, came into operation imme- diately. In addition, exporters would be aided in obtain- ing performance bonds where these were required by overseas buyers. March 4. Exports of petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts ceased to require individual licenses. March 11. Agreement was reached on a revision of the terms on which the United Kingdom had acceded to the EEC. April 3. New and expanded surveillance arrange- ments for textile commodities came into effect. They covered most yarns and fabrics of all main textile fibers and the basic man-made fibers, consigned from all coun- tries other than member states of the EEC, which were 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM not already subject to licensing; individual import li- censes were issued without restriction as to quantity but subject to the provision of certain informa t ion. Existing surveillance arrangements were superseded but licensing arrangements for textiles subject to restraint were not affected. April 15. Value-added tax on many goods, whether locally produced or imported, was increased to 25 per cent. April 15-16. Gold coins, gold medals, etc., were brought under stricter control by a combination of tighter exchange controls and individual import licens- ing, as follows: (1) The Exchange Control (Gold Coins Exemption) Order, 1971 was revoked and was replaced by the Ex- change Control (Gold Coins Exemption) Order, 1975. The latter exempted all gold coins f rom the provisions of Sections 2 and 3 of the Exchange Control Act, 1947 but exempted f rom the provisions of Section 1 of the Act only the following: (a) the buying, selling, lending, and borrowing of gold coins minted in or before 1837; (b) the buying and selling of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the United Kingdom, if the seller is a person resident in the United Kingdom and is not selling on behalf of a person resident outside the United Kingdom; and (c) the borrowing and lending of any gold coins minted after 1837 and held in the United Kingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are per- sons resident in the United Kingdom. For purposes of this Order, the United Kingdom was defined as includ- ing the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. (2) Gold coins minted after 1837 and gold medals, medallions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions and manufactured after 1837 could no longer be imported into the United Kingdom under the Open General Import License. Applications from authorized dealers in gold for a license to import gold coins minted after 1837 and gold medals, etc., manu- factured after 1837 would normally be granted subject to certain conditions, but licenses would not otherwise be issued. (3) Restrictions were placed on sales of gold bullion and gold coins by authorized dealers in gold. These restrictions prohibited the sale, unless permitted by the Bank of England, of gold bullion for manufac tur ing gold coins, gold medals, and the like, and prevented gold coins minted after 1837 that might be purchased in the fu tu re by authorized dealers f rom persons resident out- side the United Kingdom, from being resold to U.K. residents, including other authorized dealers in gold. Authorized dealers in gold could sell post-1837 gold coins to residents of the United Kingdom only if such coins were held for the account of, or had been pur- chased from, residents of the United Kingdom (includ- ing other authorized dealers in go ld), or were from their own existing stocks acquired prior to April 16. In the case of sales of gold bullion and post-1837 gold 474 coins to residents of the Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom, authorized dealers required in addition the specific permission of the Bank of Eng- land; applications for permission normally had to be supported by evidence of approval by the local exchange control authorities. Sales of post-1837 gold coins by authorized dealers in gold to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories were not restricted. In addition, the Bank of England ceased its sales of gold sovereigns to residents of the United Kingdom, with the exception of sales to authorized gold dealers for export outside the Scheduled Territories. The ma in effect of these measures was that residents of the United Kingdom (other than authorized dealers in gold possessing a license) could no longer import gold coins minted after 1837 or gold medals, etc., manu- factured after 1837; that any post-1837 gold coins that authorized dealers in gold might in the fu tu re purchase from persons resident outside the United Kingdom could not be resold to residents of the United Kingdom; and that the export of gold bullion and of post-1837 gold coins to Gibraltar and the Republic of Ireland was not normally permitted except with the approval of the local control authorities. The holding, buying and selling, and borrowing and lending (between residents of the United K ingdom) of post-1837 gold coins and gold medals, etc., that were already in the United Kingdom remained unrestricted. Control over the export of all gold coins, irrespective of the year of issue, and of gold medals, etc., was not changed, but exports to the Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom were brought under closer control. A short-lived premium over over- seas quotations arose for gold coins already in the United Kingdom. April 15. It was announced that the ECGD would be empowered selectively to guarantee preshipment loans to finance large export contracts. (This facility began to operate on December 18.) April 23. Aircraft from the Eastern Area were placed on Open General Import License. May 12. U.K. resident owners of OSA securities which were held before June 23, 1972 and had not yet been placed with an authorized depositary had to apply for specific Bank of England permission before selling them. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and other Current Transactions was renewed for one year. June 5. In a national referendum, the United King- dom's continued membership in the EEC was confirmed. June 18. Authorized banks were advised that they had no delegated power to authorize the use of official exchange for payments due to nonresidents in respect of professional fees or commission charges in connection with the acquisition, disposal, or management of port- folio investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 20. The ECGD expanded its cover facilities in support of performance bonds for exporters. July 1. Improved market access was granted to many imports from specified developing countries, under the terms of the Lome Convention between the EEC and certain developing countries of Africa, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (the ACP coun tr ies). July 8. The Commodity Scheme for Oils, Seeds, and Fats was extended to additional oils and fats. July 22. Certain regulations governing foreign cur- rency accounts ma in ta ined by residents were revised. The amount of sterling notes and coins with which visitors to the United Kingdom may credit their External Accounts was raised to £300. The requirements for the mark ing of checks and other ins trumen ts of pay- ment received for the credit of External Accounts were revised and expanded. A definition was provided of External Sterling ("sterling standing to the credit of an External Account"). July 23. The Government announced a seven-point program to assist the textiles, clothing, and footwear industries. The surveillance licensing already in opera- tion for certain man-made fibers, yarns, and fabrics from non-EEC sources would from September 1 be extended to the entire range of clothing and textile products from such sources. Three Eastern European countries had agreed to restrain exports of footwear to the United Kingdom to below 1974 levels. Government departments were being asked to ensure that they ob- tained their requirements of textiles, clothing, and foot- wear from U.K. manufacturers, and other purchasers in the public sector were being asked to fo l low the same principle. July 23. The EEC authorized the Un i ted Kingdom to postpone the liberalization measures in respect of capital movements to EEC member countries which had been scheduled for January and July 1975; they related to out- ward direct investments and personal capital transfers. August 8. Fresh and frozen grapefruit from the Dol- lar Area were placed on Open General Import License. August 12. Following a change in administrative practice, the Bank of England henceforth was prepared to authorize the payment of interest on external sterling loans when the rate was not fixed for the term of the loan. For such loans from nonresidents required to be ma in ta ined for a m in imum period of two years, the interest rate could be either: ( 1) fixed for the term of the loan at not more than l/z of 1 per cent above the interbank lending rate in the Euro-dollar market appro- priate to the minimum repayment term specified by the Bank of England; or (2) variable, at not more than l/2 of 1 per cent above the interbank lending rate in the Euro-dollar market appropriate to the period up to the first date set in the loan agreement for rollover or review of interest, and thereafter varying on the same basis for each subsequent similar period. UNITED KINGDOM September 18. The Bank of England announced that permission would not be given to persons who had emi- grated and who had funds restricted under Section 40 of the Exchange Control Act to purchase with their restricted funds gold coins minted after 1837. Permis- sion was given to concessionary banks to sell on behalf of emigrants gold coins minted after 1837 and held subject to restrictions imposed at the time of redesig- nation, to other nonresidents or authorized dealers in gold, against payment to the seller's restricted bank account. The proceeds could not be dealt with in any way except with the specific permission of the Bank of England, other than being invested on The Stock Exchange in quoted sterling securities. Permission would not be given to persons resident in the United Kingdom to buy gold coins minted after 1837 from emigrants. October 3. It was announced that a surveillance licensing system would be introduced for color tele- vision tubes and sets. October 6. All types of grapefruit juice and orange juice f rom the Dollar Area were placed on Open Gen- eral Import License. November 5. The House of Lords upheld the deci- sion of November 26, 1974 of the English Court of Appeal that where the currency of a contract is a for- eign currency, the English courts have jurisdiction to give judgment for a sum expressed in that foreign currency. November 18. Licensing of imports of acrylic yarn from the Republic of Korea was suspended until the end of the year. November 28. Imports from all sources other than Rhodesia of gold medals, medallions, etc., were placed on Open General Import License when weighing not more than 8 grams and of a value not exceeding <£15 c.i.f. December 13. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1976 cigars from the Dollar Area were being placed on Open General Import License. December 17. The imposition of temporary restric- tions on imports of selected items was announced, as follows: a quota of 2,732 tons on imports of spun cotton yarn from Spain in 1976; a quota of 4,924 tons on imports of spun cotton yarn from Portugal in 1976; and a quota of 2,221 tons on imports of fabrics made of man-made fibers from Portugal in 1976. The Gov- ernment would also be seeking voluntary restraints on exports to the United Kingdom of men's woolen suits and men's, women's, and children's footwear from Eastern Europe; in the case of men's leather footwear the restraints would be an extension in 1976 of restraints already agreed for 1975. In addition, a system of import licensing for surveillance purposes only would be introduced in January 1976 covering imports of color television receivers, color television tubes, and portable monochrome television sets from all sources; licenses would be issued on demand. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM December 18. Certain export promotion measures were announced in broad outline. They included improved insurance coverage against cost escalation under large export contracts, insurance cover for mem- bers of consortia against losses due to the insolvency of other members, and a doubling of the limits for export cover under comprehensive guarantees without reference to the ECGD. In addition, it was stated that the preshipment finance scheme now was generally available. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value of the Un i ted States Dollar was estab- lished on October 18, 1973 at 0.736662 gram of fine gold, corresponding to US$42.22 a fine ounce or US$1.20635 = SDR 1. The conver t ib i l i ty of the U.S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets has been suspended and exchange rates are not m a in t a in ed w i th in any stipulated margin f rom parity. There are no restric- tions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions invo lv ing the au thor i- ties or nationals of Cambodia, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Nor th Korea, No r th V ie t -Nam, and South Viet-Nam, and those imposed pu r suant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of f u n ds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any person in Rhodesia ( in c lud ing the authorities th e r eo f ), unless the f u n ds are in payment of imports of strategic and critical ma te r ia ls of Rho- desian origin.1 The United States fo rma l ly notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury deals w i th license applications involving financial or commerc ial trans- actions directly or ind irec t ly w i th Cambod ia, Cuba, Nor th Korea, Rhodesia, Nor th V ie t -Nam, and South Viet-Nam or the ir nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Rhodes ian Sanctions Regulations. It also deals with license app l ica t ions involving the blocked accounts in the Un i ted States of the above-named countries, as well as the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Es ton ia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and L i thuan ia. The Bureau of Customs of the Department of the Treasury administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are generally established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are adm in- istered by the Depar tment of Ag r icu l tu re through the issuance of import licenses. A global import quota on sugar is set by the Depar tment of Ag r icu l tu re. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petro- leum and petroleum products are issued by the Depart- ment of the Interior. For items sub ject to export control other than crude petroleum and petroleum products the Depar tment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments The impo r ta t ion of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless licensed, if such merchandise is of Cambod ian, Cuban, Nor th Korean, Nor th Vietnamese, or South V ie tnamese origin, or, unless the goods are strategic and critical ma ter ia ls, if the merchand ise is of Rho- desian or ig in. Impo rt quotas are in effect for ( 1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most da i ry products, and peanu ts, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Ad ju s tm ent Act; and (2) cer ta in f ish and certain potatoes. A global import quota is in effect for sugar. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, bu t ter oil, and sugar, the above quo tas are on a coun try-of-produc t ion basis.2 Impo r ts of crude oil and oil products are subject to an import en t i t lement program and to impo rt license fees. The Un i ted States is a pa r ty to the GATT Arrange- ment Rega rd ing I n t e r n a t i o n al Trade in Textiles and to 18 bilateral textile agreements negotiated under the A r rangemen t 's prov is ions. These agreements set the levels for the partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the Un i ted States. As at the end of 1975, no limita- tions were applied to impor ts of crude petroleum and petroleum products, but these were generally subject to impo rt licenses and import license fees. Imports of f resh, f rozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mu t ton are governed by 12 b i la teral agreemen ts as an alternative to the impos i t ion of manda to ry quo tas und er the Meat Import Act of 1964. The t r an s f er of f u n ds to Rhodesia for most purposes other th an payment for imports of strategic and critical materials (see section on Exchange Ra te System, above) is pe rm i t ted only under license. Other paymen ts and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions wh ich are perm i t ted on ly under license; these exceptions are paymen ts to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, No r th V ie t-Nam, and South V ie t-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Mun i t ions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and amm u n i t i on to the People's Republic of China, Cambodia, Cuba, Eastern Europe, No r th Korea, South A f r ica, the U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, or South Viet-Nam. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses 1 In addition, certain enemy and occupied area p rope r ty blocked du r ing World War II rema ins blocked (Czechoslovakia, Es ton ia, German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and L i t h u a n i a ). 2 Temporary quo ta restrictions on imports of certain beef and veal f r om Canada were te rm ina ted with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES and generally no licenses are issued except for educa- tional, charitable, or humanitarian items. All exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and South Viet-Nam are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than CMEA members, certain Arab states, Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, or South Viet-Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a full year's shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those appli- cable to other Eastern European countries. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to controls for reasons of short supply; as at the end of 1975 such controls were appli- cable to crude petroleum and petroleum fuels. Export plans for wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean oil are subject to reporting requirements in order to avoid the need for controls. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are pro- hibited to and from Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rhodesia, North Viet-Nam, and South Viet-Nam. Individuals leaving or entering the country with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, and /or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital 8 Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment are generally free of any other form of approval requirements, although in certain instances compliance with specified banking regulations may be required; with a few exceptions for national security reasons or to protect vital national interests, the United States does not impose special restrictions on inward investment. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involving Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rhodesia, North Viet-Nam, and South Viet-Nam, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). Federal Reserve member banks must meet reserve requirements of 4 per cent on net Euro-dollar borrow- 3 Early in 1975 it was announced that the Administration had con- ducted a thorough review of U.S. policy toward inward investment and concluded that no change in the open-door policy was necessary or warranted. 478 ings from their foreign branches; foreign-owned non- member banks and agencies and branches of foreign banks voluntarily maintain reserves against increases in their net borrowings f rom foreign sources above their May 1973 levels, at the request of the Federal Reserve Board. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to limitation. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, except for gold transactions involving Cambodia, Cuba, North Korea, Rhodesia, North Viet-Nam, or South Viet-Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. U.S. gold coins remain legal tender at their face value. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is no longer required. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market. Gold may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the U.S. Sugar Act (P.L. 92-138), imports of sugar ceased to be subject to country quotas. The Presi- dent retained the authority to establish a global quota subject to a reduced rate of duty. A global quota of 7 million short tons was set for 1975 (as announced on November 17, 1974); the tariff rate was not changed and remained at the lowest level provided for under the ta r i ff schedules. January 1. Quantitative restrictions on imports of sweetened chocolate, candy, and confectionery were abolished. January 1. The suspension of quota restrictions on meat imports, which had expired on December 31, 1974, was extended to December 31, 1975. January 1. The export controls over ferrous scrap were discontinued. January 3. The U.S. Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618) came into force. It granted the Administration author- ity to enter into broad-scale international trade nego- tiations, while offering safeguards to domestic indus- tries and workers hurt by import competition. The ma in provisions gave the President authority ( 1) to negotiate on tariff and nontariff barriers to trade during a five-year period; (2) to modify the levels of tariffs and quotas in order to deal with U.S. balance of pay- ments deficits or surpluses for up to 150 days without Congressional approval; ( 3) to grant emergency import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution relief from increased imports under the "escape clause," as well as adjustment assistance, on the basis of liberal- ized criteria and procedures; (4) to provide speedier relief from "unfair and unjustifiable" trade practices; (5) subject to certain provisos, to extend most-favored- nation status to communist countries; and (6) to grant generalized tariff preferences to developing countries. The Trade Act also gave Congress the power to review and reject trade agreements (nontariff agreements). The U.S. Tariff Commission was renamed as the U.S. International Trade Commission. The Trade Act amended the An t idump ing Act and the Countervailing Duty Law and reinforced the standards for the administration by the Executive of Countervailing Duty Laws as they apply to the An t i -, dumping Act. In view of the newly imposed statutory time limitations, a simultaneous investigation of a back- log of complaints was undertaken. With respect to findings of injury to domestic industries, the criterion under the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 had been whether imports were in ma jor part the result of trade agreement concessions and were the ma jor cause of in ju ry; under the new Trade Act, no link to concessions is required and increased imports only have to be a subs tan t ial cause of serious injury. With respect to the generalized ta r i ff preferences (GSP), certain country exclusions were mandatory. Thus, the preferences could not be granted to any developing country which granted reverse preferences to any developed country which had a s ign if icant adverse effect on U.S. commerce, unless the developing country provided satisfactory assurances that it would eliminate the reverse preferences or their adverse effects on U.S. commerce before January 1, 1976. January 4. The President signed P.L. 93-646, which extended the Export-Import Bank's operating authority through June 30, 1978 and increased its commitment authority to US$25 billion. The law also modified the Bank's operational requirements and restricted its authority to finance sales to the U.S.S.R. January 6. The U.S. Government offered for sale, at public auction, approximately 2 million ounces of gold in 400-ounce bars. Bids from foreign governments or central banks were not admitted. Bids for 954,800 ounces were received, of which bids for 754,000 ounces were accepted at prices of US$153 an ounce or higher; the average price was US$165.67. January 14. The U.S.S.R. informed the United States that under the terms of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974 it could not bring the trade agreement of October 18, 1972 into force. February 1. By virtue of an Executive Order of January 23, a supplemental import fee of US$1 a barrel was introduced on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products. February 13. A technical cooperation agreement was signed with Saudi Arabia. UNITED STATES February 24. Certain reporting requirements for non- bank firms were published and came into effect for reporting on March 31. They related to foreign cur- rency transactions by large U.S. enterprises and their foreign branches and majority-owned foreign subsidi- aries and were required by Title II of P.L. 93-110 (the Act amending the Par Value Modification Act) to provide additional data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital. Banks and banking institu- tions in the United States had since November 30, 1974 been required to report weekly their positions, spot and forward, in specified foreign currencies, and to report mon th ly their assets, liabilities, and positions in speci- fied currencies. Nonbanking firms (including the U.S. branches and subsidiaries of foreign nonbanking firms) now were required to report to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, monthly and /or quarterly, their assets, liabilities, and spot and forward positions in the same currencies, including those of their foreign branches and majority-owned foreign partnerships and subsidiaries. The currencies to be reported were Belgian francs (commercial and financial), Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs (for foreign branches, partnerships, and subsidiaries also the positions in U.S. dollars). February 24. Responding to allegations that some national banks might have been offered large deposits and loans by some foreign investors subject to racial and religious conditions, the Comptroller of the Cur- rency notified national banks that such discrimina- tion was incompatible with the public service function of U.S. bank ing institutions and that the Comptroller's office would assure the adherence of national banks to a nond iscr im ina tory policy. February 27. The Export-Import Bank announced a liberalization of its lending and guarantee policies. The Bank was prepared to lend as much as 55 per cent of the export price, to guarantee as much as 85 per cent of an export transaction, and to go up to 90 per cent in combination. March. The Government announced that it would expect any foreign government contemplating a major direct investment in the United States to seek advance consultations w i th the U.S. Government. March 4. An economic cooperation agreement with Iran was signed. It provided for a trade target of about US$15 billion of reciprocal non-oil trade over the next five years. March 4. The Federal Reserve Board resubmitted to Congress proposed legislation to establish a national policy on foreign banks operating in the United States and a system of Federal regulation and supervision of those operations. The underlying principle was na- tional treatment or mutual nondiscrimination. Among other things, Federal Reserve membership of branches, agencies, and subsidiaries of a foreign bank would be 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES required where the parent foreign bank had world-wide bank assets greater than US$500 million. The proposed legislation would have empowered the Comptroller of the Currency to license new national branches of for- eign banks. It provided that the establishment in the United States of new bank ing offices of foreign banks would have to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury. (By the end of 1975 this proposed legisla- tion had not been enacted.) March 6. The approval requirement under the voluntary system of October 7, 1974 for big export orders for grain and soybeans was discontinued; report- ing requirements were maintained. Under this system (applicable to wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean flour), exporters had initially been expected to obtain advance approval from the Department of Agriculture when (1) a sales contract would involve shipment of more than 50,000 tons of a particular commodity on a single day to any one country of destination, or cause cumulative sales of any commodity to a single destination to exceed 100,000 tons in a week; and (2) any change f rom export destinations previ- ously reported under existing contracts would affect more than 30,000 tons of one commod i ty on a single day or more than 100,000 tons in a week. These amounts had been doubled in February 1975. March 24. The President initiated the process for the implementation of the GSP scheme by submitting to the U.S. International Trade Commission for its consideration a list of more than 3,000 proposed eligible articles. The President also issued an Executive Order containing two lists of proposed beneficiary coun- tries (127 countries and territories designated as eligible and 24 countries not eligible for the present but being considered for possible designation). March 27. The President issued an Executive Order setting forth the scope of the Trade Agreements Pro- gram, defining the role of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and creating a Trade Policy Committee and an East-West Foreign Trade Board. April 2. A trade agreement providing for most- favored-nation treatment was signed with Romania. It came into force on August 3. April 9. It was announced that the reserve require- ment against banks' Euro-dollar borrowings was being reduced from 8 per cent to 4 per cent w i th effect from the four-week period beginning May 22. Also affected were offices in the United States of foreign-owned bank ing institutions that had been requested to maintain an 8 per cent reserve against increases in net Euro-dollar borrowings since mid-1973. April 17. The Department of the Treasury announced that under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations it had blocked all financial and commercial transactions with Cambodia by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States unless first licensed by the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. Domestic banks had 480 been instructed to block all Cambodian accounts immediately. On April 30 the Treasury announced similarly that all financial and commercial transactions with South Viet-Nam were prohibited unless permitted by license by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Bank accounts of private and official Vietnamese who were in the United States were not affected. April 21. Trading in gold and silver commodity fu tures and transactions involving margin and leverage contracts in gold or silver bullion and bulk gold or silver coins became subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, an independent Federal agency established by P.L. 93-463 of October 23, 1974. May 7. By Executive Order No. 11858, the President established an interagency Committee on Foreign Invest- ment in the United States to monitor the impact of foreign investment (both direct and portfolio) in the United States, review major individual investments, and consider proposed new legislation or federal regula- tions. The Committee was to serve as a focal point w i th in the executive branch for ensuring that foreign investments in the United States were consistent with U.S. national interests. At the same time, in imple- mentation of another section of the Executive Order, an Office of Foreign Investment in the United States was created in the Department of Commerce to gather, consolidate, and analyze informa t ion collected by the various agencies of the U.S. Government on foreign investment flows into the United States, and to submit reports and recommendations to the Committee. May 7. New reporting requirements on foreign direct investments in the United States were adopted by the Department of Commerce, with effect from January 1, 1975. A foreign investor whose interest was 10 per cent or more of the ownership of a U.S. com- pany and whose investment was US$2 million or more was required to submit quarterly reports to the Depart- ment of Commerce as part of the latter's regular gather- ing of balance of payments informa t ion. Previously, the threshold figure for ownership interest was 25 per cent. May 16. Cambodia and South Viet-Nam were added to country group Z under the export control regula- tions; thus, the general export embargo policy was applicable, except for human i tar ian cases. May 22. The Federal Reserve Board issued an inter- pretation of its regulation M defining foreign institu- tions that are considered to be foreign banks. May 27. The Department of the Treasury, reiterat- ing the U.S. interest in ma in ta in ing a continuing volume of investment flows to the country, issued a summary of the laws and regulations applicable to foreign invest- ment in the United States. It stressed tha t, with a few exceptions to assure national security and to protect vital national interests, the United States did not impose special restrictions on foreign investment in the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 27. The President announced increases in the supplemental import license fees for crude oil and oil products (see June 1, be low ), as well as certain techni- cal changes in the Manda tory Oil Import Program, inc lud ing changes a f fec t ing the applicability of the fees to certain imported oil products. May 29. The OECD Declaration of May 30, 1974 on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions was renewed for one year. June 1. In accordance w i th the President's Proclama- tion of May 27, the supplemental impo rt license fees on all crude oil, unf in ished oils, and finished oil products (except ethane, propane, butanes, and asphalt) were raised. The supplemental fee on crude oil was increased from US$1 to US$2 a barrel, and that on most petro- leum products f rom zero to US$0.60 a barrel. The Federal Energy Administration amended its Oil Import Regu la t ions accordingly on June 10. June 30. At its second public auc t ion, the U.S. Gov- ernment offered for sale approximately 500,000 ounces of gold in 250-ounce bars. The sale was by competitive bids on the "common price" basis. Bids f rom foreign governments and central banks were not adm i t ted. Bids for approximately 4 million ounces were received, of which bids for 499,500 ounces were accepted at a price of US$165.05. July 23. The Department of the Treasury announced new an t idump ing regulations. July 28. The U.S. In terna t ional Trade Commission announced tha t, at the request of the Congress, it had instituted an investigation of the U.S.-Canadian auto- motive agreement of J anu a ry 16, 1965. August 5. Presidential Proclamation No. 4382 ter- minated the temporary quota restrictions on imports f rom Canada of cattle, hogs, and pork. Reciprocal action was taken by Canada (see also December 31, be low ). August 5. The U.S. International Trade Commis- sion initiated an investigation of alleged i n j u ry f rom imports of stainless and alloy tool steel. (On Janua ry 16, 1976 it reported to the President its de te rm ina t ion that stainless steel and alloy tool steel were be ing imported in such increased quantities as to cause serious in ju ry or threat thereof to the domestic indus t ry. This was the Commission's first affirmative decision in an import relief investigation under the U.S. Trade Act of 1974. The President in March 1976 stated that he would impose quotas unless export restraint agreements could be negotiated.) August 7. The U.S. In te rna t ional Trade Commission was advised by the Department of the Treasury that the Secretary, in in i t ia t ing eight an t idump ing investigations pursuant to the An t idump ing Act, 1921, as amended, w i th respect to passenger automobiles f rom Belgium, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, had sub- stantial doubts that a U.S. indus try was being, or was UNITED STATES likely to be, in jured by reason of such imports. In response, the Commission on August 8 ins t i tu ted an inqu i ry to determine whether there was no reasonable ind ica t ion that an indus t ry was being, or was likely to be, i n j u r e d, or was prevented f rom being established, by reason of the importation of such merchandise. August 12. The Secretary of Agriculture asked grain exporters to suspend sales of grain to the U.S.S.R. temporarily. On September 9 the suspension was extended un t il mid-October. It was terminated on October 20. August 12. An unde rs tand ing was concluded with Japan providing for guaranteed m in imum annual sup- plies and purchases of U.S. grain and soybeans for a three-year period. August 21. In accordance w i th the policy agreement reached on Ju ly 29 in the Organization of American States, it was announced that the OAS trade embargo against Cuba would be relaxed (see November 24, below). August 29. The Federal Reserve swap line with the Bank of Mexico was doubled to US$360 million. This action increased the size of the swap network to US$20,160,000,000. September 8. The U.S. In te rna t ional Trade Commis- sion advised the Depar tment of the Treasury that it could not find that there was no reasonable indication of in ju ry in the au tomob i le a n t i d um p i ng investigation. The Treasury inves t iga t ion, therefore, was not termi- nated. September 9. A Food Committee comprising repre- sentatives of the Economic Policy Board and the Na t ional Security Council was created to develop nego- t i a t ing strategy for U.S. gra in sales. It was superseded on March 5, 1976 by an interagency Ag r icu l tu ral Policy Committee reporting directly to the President. September 10. The Export-Import Bank introduced a more flexible export credit policy in order to bring its interest rates in to line w i th commerc ial bank rates, wh i le a l low ing reduced rates to help meet competition of fo re ign export-credit agencies. September 17. The U.S. In te rna t ional Trade Com- m iss ion in i t ia ted an investigation of alleged i n j u ry from impo r ts of nonrubber footwear. (On February 20, 1976 it reported to the President its determination that the U.S. foo twear indus t ry was su f fe r ing serious in ju ry f rom increased impor ts. On April 16, 1976 the Presi- dent's Special Represen ta t ive for Trade Negotiations announced that the President would not impose quotas or t a r i ff increases on foo twear but would ask instead for relief in the fo rm of increased unemp loyment bene- f i ts and job re t ra in ing .) September 21. The supplemental impo rt license fee of US$0.60 a barrel on imports of refined petroleum products (m a i n ly gasoline and hea t ing o i l) was removed. October 20. The Depar tment of the Treasury ruled that rebates of value-added tax on steel imports f rom 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES the EEC did not constitute subsidies in violation of U.S. laws. October 20. A five-year agreement on grain sales was signed with the U.S.S.R. The agreement committed the U.S.S.R. to purchase a minimum of 6 million metric tons of wheat and corn in any crop year beginning October 1, 1976; it permitted the U.S.S.R. to purchase an additional 2 million tons annually without govern- ment-to-government consultation; and it obliged the U.S. Government to facilitate U.S.S.R. purchases and not to exercise its authority to control shipments of these amounts unless the total U.S. grain supply (excluding rice) fell below 225 million metric tons (in which event the United States could reduce the amount which the U.S.S.R. might purchase to less than 6 million tons). The agreement also provided for consultation in advance of purchases in excess of 8 million tons of wheat and corn in any one crop year. An assurance was obtained that additional U.S.S.R. purchases of grain in the cur- rent crop year would not be in a volume which could disrupt the U.S. marke t; the United States noted that in its view this volume was 7 million metric tons. The agreement would come into force on October 1, 1976. October 20. A letter of intent was signed to nego- tiate a five-year agreement on the sale to the United States of 10 million metric tons of crude oil and oil products annually from the U.S.S.R. October 20. In its first decision under the import relief provisions of the Trade Act of 1974, the U.S. International Trade Commission reported to the Presi- dent that birch-faced plywood used for mak ing doors was not being imported in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious in ju ry to the domestic industry producing similar articles. October 28. A P.L. 480 agreement was signed with Egypt providing for concessional sales of wheat, wheat flour, and tobacco. These commodities would be sup- plied in fiscal year 1976 under a long-term dollar credit arrangement. November 1. Several major modifications in the Export-Import Bank's discount loan program came into effect. They were intended to help ensure that the program was only used where it was most needed. Among other things, discount loans henceforth were authorized only to support fixed-rate export credits; the minimum discount loan rate was increased from 7.5 per cent to 8 per cent; and the max imum discount loan for particularly large transactions was restricted to 50 per cent of the financed portion of the export sale. November 5. The U.S. International Trade Com- mission ruled that increased imports of wrapper tobacco were not a substantial cause of serious in ju ry to U.S. growers of cigar wrapper tobacco. November 11. The President informed Congress of his intention to designate Christmas Island, the Cocos Islands, Cyprus, Hong Kong, Israel, Romania, Somalia, and Turkey as eligible for the generalized tariff prefer- ences. 482 November 19. Banks were required to report to the Department of the Treasury in more detail, on a monthly basis, the ma tur i ty structure of forward exchange transactions, assets, liabilities, and overall positions in the major foreign currencies. November 20. The President announced a number of actions intended to provide a comprehensive response on the part of the Federal Government to any discrimi- nation against U.S. citizens or firms that might arise from foreign boycott practices. The Secretary of Com- merce was directed to amend regulations under the Export Administration Act to prohibit U.S. exporters and "related service organizations" from answering or complying in any way with boycott requests that would cause such discrimination. The term "related service organizations" was defined so as to include banks. The Department of Commerce revised its Export Adminis- tration Regulations accordingly, with effect from December 1. November 24. The President issued Executive Order No. 11888, which brought the GSP scheme into effect on January 1, 1976. The Order also made certain revisions in the March list of eligible countries and territories; principal changes were the addition of 5 countries and 3 dependent territories (Cyprus, Israel, Romania, Somalia, and Turkey, as well as Christmas Island, the Cocos Islands, and Hong Kong) and the removal of 2 countries (Cambodia and South Viet- N am ). The revised list included 98 countries and 39 territories. (The scheme provided for duty-free access for ten years, up to certain dollar-value and import- percentage limits, for specified products (2,724 items) originating in and imported directly f rom any develop- ing country designated as a beneficiary country. Coun- tries ineligible for designation included the OPEC countries, and countries subsequently declared ineligible were Cambodia, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Uganda, South Viet-Nam, and the People's Democratic Repub- lic of Yemen.4 Among "import-sensitive" commodities excluded from preferential treatment were all textile and apparel items subject to the U.S. bilateral textile agreements and specified footwear articles.) November 24. Western Hemisphere countries that are members of the OAS, and firms established in such countries, would henceforth be authorized, on a case- by-case basis, to re-export to Cuba goods manufac- tured outside the United States and containing U.S. nonstrategic parts and materials. In general, re-export authorization would be granted provided the content of such U.S. goods was less than 20 per cent by value. Regulations issued by the Department of Commerce on November 23 extended this facility to exports from any country where local law requires, or local policy favors, trade with Cuba. November 25. The Department of the Treasury an- nounced a final determination that bounties or grants 4 The Lao People's Democratic Republic was excluded with effect from February 26, 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution existed on canned hams and shoulders exported f rom EEC countries to the Un i ted States, but stated that add i t ional duties were being waived under the provisions of the Trade Act of 1974. November 27. In an exchange of letters, Poland stated its in ten t ion to buy an average of 2.5 m i l l ion tons of U.S. grain annua l ly for the next five years, wh i le the United States stated its in ten t ion to try to sell this qu an t i ty and to consider applications for credit facilities f rom the Commodity Credit Corporation for some of these purchases. December 16. The Federal Reserve Board urged member commercial banks to avoid invo lvement in restrictive foreign trade practices that d isc r im ina te against U.S. citizens or that accommodate boycotts against f r iend ly fore ign nations. The Board's policy had been set fo r th in more detail in a letter of Decem- ber 12 to the 12 Federal Reserve Banks for t r an sm i t t al to the member commercial banks. December 18. An agreement w i th Egypt was signed under which the Un i ted States extended a commod i ty import loan of US$100 million. December 21. The supplemental import fee of US$2 a barrel on crude petroleum was abolished. UNITED STATES December 22. The President signed in to law the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975. December 23. The Federal Reserve Board issued for comment a proposed policy s ta tement to the effect that, in cons ider ing app l ica t ions by U.S. b a n k i ng organiza- t ions to pa r t ic ipa te in fo re ign jo int ven tu res, it would take in to account the possibility that add i t ional f inanc ial support f rom the U.S. par tner might be requ ired, which m ight be sub s t an t i a l ly in excess of the or ig inal equity. (On February 12, 1976, the Board issued a statement a long these l ine s, f u r t h er no t ing that the s ta tement was not in t end ed to proh ib it or discourage j o i nt ven tures abroad but to c l a r i fy for a ll parties the probable d imen- s ions of the risks invo lved .) December 29. A new m a r i t ime agreement was signed w i th the U.S.S.R. It came in to force on J anu a ry 1, 1976 and replaced the 1972 ag reemen t, which expired on December 31. As before, U.S.-flag vessels were gua ran teed the carriage of at least one th i rd of all U.S. gra in sold to the U.S.S.R. December 31. Pres iden t ial Proc lama t ion No. 4410 t e rm i n a t e d, w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976, the tem- po ra ry quo ta res tr ic t ions on impo r ts f rom Canada of ce r ta in beef and veal. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The BCEAO levies a commission of Mo of 1 per mill on transfers f rom coun- tries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to countries outside the Union.2 Exchange rates for fore ign curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency con- cerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union, part of which must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Terri- tories, except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the M in is try of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward direct investment and all outward invest- ment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter- 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are exempt. The commissions are not levied on transfers ordered by public treasur- ies and similar institutions or by the Postal Adm in is tra t ion of Upper Volta. 484 mediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Com- merce, Industrial Development, and Mines. Import cer- tificates for liberalized commodities and export attesta- tions (when settled in foreign currencies) are made out by the impor ter or exporter himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any Operations Account country. Certain set- tlements with Ghana are made through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Por- tugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports or ig ina t ing in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may in prin- ciple be made freely, although exceptionally, special regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EEC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate (a t tes ta t ion ). Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accord- ance with an annual import program, determined each ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this pro- gram, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities. Impor ts f rom Ghana are subject to special regulations. All import transac t ions re la t ing to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The import licenses or import certificates (a t tes ta t ions) en t i t le impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approva l, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the au thor ized banks. A ll paymen ts to Por tuga l, Rhodes ia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Authorized banks and the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion have been empowered to m ake paymen ts to fo re ign countries free ly, on beha lf of resi- dents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are pe rm i t ted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not requ ire au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income acc ru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of p ro f i ts, d iv idends, and royal- ties are also permitted. Residents trave l ing for tou r i sm to coun tr ies other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Opera t ions Account coun tr ies of the French F ranc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ldren under t en) for any number of trips a yea r; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing af ter re tu rn to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for t ravel abroad for business pur- poses is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, w i th a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a t r ip. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maxi- mum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Resident travelers to other coun tr ies of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if going to a coun t ry that is not a mem- ber of the West A f r ican Mone tary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out, in addition to any means of payment established in their name abroad, fore ign banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 or, subject to the submission of appro- priate documents (if it was e i ther declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, e t c . ), any larger amoun t. They UPPER VOLTA may also take out any foreign means of payment other than bankno tes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, again subject to submission of documentation. Finally, they make take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agri- cultural products require a license f rom the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun- tries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Cer ta in commod i t ies can be exported in special c ircums tances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regu la t ions. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or another Operations Account c o u n t ry mu st be surrendered within two months of the da te on wh ich the payment falls due (the due date s t ipu la ted in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their des t ina t ion). All export transactions re la t ing to fo r e ign countries must be domiciled with an au thor ized bank when the ir value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter m u st sign a foreign exchange commit- m ent and subm it a customs ce r t i f ica t ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom t ran sac t ions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun tr ies f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings must not be received in or f r om Portugal, Rhodes ia, or South A f r ica. Resident and non re s ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fo re ign bankno tes and coins (except gold co ins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Res ident travelers mu st declare to the customs any for- eign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they b r ing in and w i th in eight days af ter return sur- render these to an authorized bank. Capital All cap i tal movements between Upper Volta and Por tuga l, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movemen ts between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange con tro l; capital transfers to all other countries 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institu- tions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing opera- tions abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Upper Vo l ta4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of investment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are Quoted on a stock exchange. Since October 30, 1975, foreign firms operating in Upper Volta are obliged to "Voltaize" their capital within two years, up to at least 51 per cent in vital or priority sectors and up to at least 35 per cent in all others. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, who establishes the sales value. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Upper Volta requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authori- 3 Including those made through the in termed iary of fore ign com- panies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in Upper Volta. 4 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 486 zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports f rom Upper Volta, or by international trad- ing houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transac- tions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Ordinance No. 70-0747 PRES/PL-TP of Decem- ber 31,1970, the Investment Code, provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Cate- gory B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Gov- ernmen t, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Law No. 25761/AN set up an assistance fund for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com- bined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1975 March 29. An export monopoly for groundnuts of the 1974/75 crop was given to the Caisse de Stabilisa- tion des Prix des Produits. On October 27, the Caisse was given a permanent monopoly over exports of groundnuts, sesame, and karite kernels. May 20. Ordinance No. 75-25 made all imports of foodstuffs and feedstuffs subject to authorization and quality control. July 1. Decree No. 75/037 introduced a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent on imports and exports, as well as an import surcharge of 6 per cent. The statistical duty on exports was increased from 1 per cent to 3 per cent. These measures took effect on July 5. July 4. Decrees Nos. 346 and 347 listed the goods that were exempt from the import surcharge and gave details regarding the calculation of the customs stamp tax. UPPER VOLTA July 10. France resumed its participation in the European common margins arrangement; the parity between the CFA franc and the French franc remained unchanged. October 30. Ordinance No. 75-49 provided that all companies or firms established in Upper Volta were required to "Voltaize" specified minimum percentages of their capital within two years. Ordinance No. 75-429 created a Fund for the Voltaization of Capital. November 13. Decree No. 443 determined the tariff regime applicable to imports from member countries of the EEC. December 1. Circular No. 55 was issued regarding borrowing abroad. It dealt with borrowing for import payments and against expected export proceeds, and with advance repayment of foreign loans. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency No par value or central rate has been established for Uruguay's currency, the New Peso. Exchange transac- tions take place in a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market and a financial market. Payments and receipts in respect of imports other than books (except when the exchange is purchased more than 180 days after the due date), exports other than books, freight and insurance on imports, and most pub- lic sector exchange operations are settled in the com- mercial market, where the exchange rates are fixed (although adjusted from time to t im e ), while all other exchange transactions take place in the financial mar- ket, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1975 the buy ing and selling rates in the commercial market were NUr$2.70 and NUr$2.73 per US$1, respectively, and those in the financial market were NUr$2.77 and NUr$2.78 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank of Uruguay supplies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for imports, and the proceeds f rom exports (valued at the officially assessed price or aforo where applicable) must be surrendered to the monetary authorities.1 Commercial banks operate on their own account in the financial market, but are not permitted to exceed their combined foreign currency positions in both markets as specified below, and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank, the relevant limit is the equivalent in U.S. dollars of the sum of the net U.S. dollar asset position on February 29, 1972 and the position in Argentine pesos and Brazilian cruzeiros on September 20, 1974. For- ward exchange transactions are prohibited. Various additional effective exchange rates arise f rom the following: (1) the application of exchange taxes (detracciones or retenciones) to the proceeds from cer- tain traditional exports; (2) the payment of subsidies through tax credit certificates (reintegros) on proceeds from certain nontraditional exports; (3) a 40 per cent tax on certain profit remittances; and (4) the sale in the financial market of the excess of the actual f.o.b. value over the aforo or m in imum surrender value (sobreaforos) on wool exports. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author- ized banks, banking houses, and the monetary authori- ties. The Bank of the Republic collects import sur- charges, export taxes, and consular charges and accepts export and import registrations. i rThe Central Bank was established on March 1, 1967, but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 488 Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; these coun- tries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. There is a separate arrangement for trade in specified goods with Argentina. Settlements with other countries in the commercial market are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Most transactions in the financial market take place in U.S. dollars, Argentine pesos, or Brazilian cruzeiros. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, w i th in which period goods must be cleared through customs. An import declaration (denuncia) must be submitted to the Bank of the Repub- lic before the goods are unloaded. Imports of fully assembled automobiles are temporarily prohibited. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge (recargo). Goods are classified into nine categories; goods in one category bear no surcharge; goods in other categories are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 55, 75, 120, 150, or 200 per cent, payable at the time of regis- tration. Imports from LAFTA countries receive a fu ll or par t ial exemp t ion f rom these surcharges. Most imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, and the above-mentioned import sur- charge, to an additional import duty of 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable upon customs clearance, and to another import surcharge (recargo tributario a la impor- tation) of 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable two days a f ter import registration. All imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value at the commercial market rate. These charges are 3.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetra- ethyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same com- modities by the Administration Nacional de Combusti- bles, Alcohol y Portland (ANCAP) —the state oil, cement, and alcohol enterprise; 4 per cent for all other private sector imports; and 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP. Import taxes and surcharges in most cases are calcu- lated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution based on an officially assessed price, which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Importers may purchase foreign exchange in the com- mercial market at any time from 5 days before to 180 days after the payment to the supplier falls due. Pur- chases at any later date must be made in the financial market. Purchases with an exchange rate guarantee (ventas futuras) require a peso deposit at the time of application; the exchange is provided on the due date and the applicable exchange rate is the commercial mar- ket rate on the date of application for the guarantee. The facility is available only for import transactions that are financed-abroad, and capital goods are ineligible. Payments for Invisibles Freight and insurance on imports are settled in the commercial market. Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the financial market. Cer- tain prof it remittances are subject to a tax of 40 per cent. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal traditional exports, except beef, are subject to taxes (detracciones or reten- ciones), which are withheld by the monetary authorities on the basis of either the f.o.b. value or the aforo value of the commodity concerned. The tax is stipulated in pesos per un it of export commodity (as a percentage of the f.o.b. value for wool), but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso pro- ceeds of the export, except that for exports of wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The exchange proceeds of traditional exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities, upon receipt. At the end of 1975 the prescribed maximum surrender period was generally not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized (180 days for combed wool). Different periods were applicable to nontraditional exports and to traditional exports financed abroad. For certain exports, including wool and hides, mini- mum f.o.b. values (m in imum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been estab- lished for various grades and types. There are special arrangements for the advance surrender (anticipos and preanticipos) of the exchange proceeds from exports that are financed in foreign currency, either abroad or by domestic banks. Surrender before the export is registered (preanticipos) is permitted for wool, meat, cereals, oilseeds, and nontraditional exports; surrender after registration (anticipos) is limited to some tradi- tional exports. Subsidies in the form of tax credit cer- tificates (reintegros) of up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain nontraditional exports (80 per cent for new exports). Exports of cattle on the hoof (except when specially authorized), specified minerals (including iron, copper, URUGUAY zinc, aluminum, and nickel), and protein concentrates used for animal feed are prohibited. Exports of sheep- skin, wheat, sorghum, corn, and sunflower seeds are prohibited when production falls short of domestic con- sumption requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold to the banking system. Department stores, hotels, and other tourist establishments are authorized to accept foreign currencies at the rate prevailing in the financial market; the proceeds must be sold through the banking system. There are no limitations on the import of for- eign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either resi- dents or nonresidents may be made freely through the financial market, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. However, certain borrowing abroad is controlled, and the amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under the Foreign Investment Law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Exchange rate guarantees are in effect available on certain inward capital trans- fers, whether made by residents or nonresidents; these consist of swaps with the Central Bank. New foreign investments in Uruguay, as well as certain existing for- eign investments, are governed by a Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 14179 of March 28, 1974, as amended by Law No. 14244 of July 26, 1974, Decree No. 8087 974 of October 10, 1974, and Law No. 14371 of April 29, 1975). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the transactions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Any private purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, however, must either be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings or settled through the financial market. Imports and exports of gold for industrial use are settled through the commercial market. Changes during 1975 During the period January-April 1975 the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were gradually depreciated from Ur$ 1,640 and Ur$ 1,656 to Ur$2,300 and Ur$2,330 per US$1; there were no changes in the commercial rate from April through September 28; from September 29 through December 31, the buying and selling rates were gradually depreciated from NUr$2.30 and NUr$2.33 to NUr$2.70 and NUr$2.73 per US$1. During the year, the buying rate in the financial market moved from Ur$2,150 to NUr$2.77. The taxation of 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY traditional exports by retenciones and detracciones was reduced considerably. January 1. The economic cooperation agreement with Argentina of August 20, 1974 came into force. January 2. Decree No. 19/975 exempted certain agricultural commodities f rom import duties. Decree No. 3/975 exempted imports of iron and steel f rom the additional import duty of 18 per cent. January 10. Central Bank Circular No. 587 set the deposit-free import quotas for the first quarter of 1975 at levels similar to those established for the last three quarters of 1974. January 10. Circular No. 588 provided for increases in deposit-free quotas for raw materials and certain other essential goods for the first quarter of 1975. January 27. Circular No. 591 made imports of capi- tal goods for agriculture subject to the general import regime for capital goods. February 7. Consular charges generally were reduced from 11.6 per cent to 6 per cent, with effect from March 9. On petroleum products they remained at 5.5 per cent for private importers and were reduced from 2.75 per cent to 0.25 per cent for ANCAP. The consular charges for other imports made by ANCAP were lowered from 5.8 per cent to 0.5 per cent. Hence- for th, consular charges had to be paid in pesos at the Bank of the Republic; previously they were payable in foreign exchange. The fees were fur ther reduced on April 10. February 14. Circular No. 598 further liberalized imports of capital goods. They were exempted f rom special deposits (consignaciones). The importation of capital goods for the importer's own use did not require prior authorization. When the c.i.f. value of an import- er's annual imports of capital goods did not exceed US$20,000, no foreign financing was required. Exter- nal financing for three years was required for imports valued at US$100,000 or less and a five-year term was required for those valued at over US$100,000 (per importer per year). Imports not complying with these requirements needed special authorization, except when no use of foreign exchange in the commercial market was involved or when the imports were made on a tem- porary admission basis. February 21. Circular No. 600 freed imports of books from controls and shifted payments therefor f rom the commercial to the financial market. March 4. Circular No. 606 exempted from deposit imports of capital goods with financing provided by international institutions or foreign governments with terms of ten years or more. March 20. Sugar, yerba mate, and some other goods were exempted f rom import duties. April 2. Circular No. 609 required exporters who obtained foreign financing to surrender their export pro- ceeds not later than on the due date of the foreign exchange contract; in other cases, the maximum term 490 was 30 days f rom the date of export registration (180 days f rom registration for combed woo l ). April 2. Circular No. 610 required the surrender of the exchange proceeds from exports of dry sheep hides no later than 60 days a f ter the date of the foreign exchange contract. April 9. It was announced that w i th effect f rom Ju ly 1 the system of deposit-free quotas for imports and the 180-day foreign financing requirement for private sector imports would be eliminated, as well as the sys- tem of voluntary peso deposits in the Central Bank, which served to guarantee the exchange rate for the impor ter du r ing most of this period. April 10. Circular No. 615 made private sector impor ts subject to a m i n im um advance deposit (consig- nation) of 35 per cent of the c.i.f. value, with effect from April 14. The deposit was to be lodged at the time of import registration and would be held for 150 days. This deposit was additional to any deposit required for impo r ts in excess of the quotas established by the exist- ing consignaciones regime. Imports of capital goods, imports for temporary admission or without use of for- eign exchange, and imports financed by international organizations with terms of more than ten years, were exempt f rom the new 35 per cent deposit. April 10. Circular No. 616 modified the system of exchange rate guarantees for import payments so that the foreign exchange could be obtained either on the due date or in the fu ture (ventas futuras). Exchange would be delivered during a period between 5 days before and 180 days a f ter the date on which the exchange was due to be paid abroad. Ventas futuras could be contracted at the latest 30 days after the date the import declaration was approved by the Central Bank. April 10. Consular charges were fu r ther reduced to 4 per cent (as the general rate) and 3.5 per cent (for private sector petroleum impo r t s ); those on ANCAP imports remained unchanged. April 11. Circular No. 617 exempted various goods f rom the m in imum advance deposit; also, these goods were excluded for the calculation of the quotas free of special deposit. April 14. Circular No. 619 authorized banks to extend credit to finance the 35 per cent minimum import deposit. May 22. By virtue of Law No. 14371 of April 29, 1975, an amendment to Article 7 of the Foreign Invest- ment Law came into force. It provided that the Central Bank could not restrict the right of foreign investors to transfer abroad their profits or capital, and must ensure the convertibility and transferability of both. May 26. Circular No. 632 eliminated with effect f rom June 1 the system of import deposits (consignaciones) and of deposit-free quotas for imports. Henceforth, no limitation was placed on the right to import by any private importer. The 35 per cent minimum deposit was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution maintained; it generally was to be lodged the third day a f ter import registration. Capital goods were also made explicitly subject to the 35 per cent import deposit. June 5. Decree No. 455/975 permitted the import of capital goods for resale; previously they could only be imported for the importer's own use. June 6. Decree No. 467/975 prohibited the import of assembled automobiles and certain tractors un t il Novem- ber 30 and August 15, respectively. June 9. C ircu lar No. 636 announced that the Central Bank would charge 8 per cent per annum on the domes- tic currency amount of all exchange contracts for wool and sk ins, and 6 per cent for contracts for all other exports. June 12. A t rea ty of friendship, cooperation, and commerce was signed with Brazil, as well as a protocol for commercial expansion between the two countries. June 13. C i rcu lar No. 641 exempted f rom the 35 per cent advance deposit imports of specified agricultural products. The list was extended by Circular No. 642 of June 16. June 26. Exemptions f rom, and reductions in, import du ty were granted on m any essential imports, for the period Ju ly 1-December 31, 1975. June 26. Circular No. 643 changed the surrender period for the proceeds f rom cer ta in t rad i t ional exports. June 26. Circular No. 644 reduced the max imum rate of interest on foreign currency loans granted by domestic banks f rom 14.5 per cent to 12 per cent, w i th effect from July 1. June 27. C ircu lar No. 645 exempted all capital goods imported for projects of general interest f rom the 35 per cent m in imum advance deposit. Such projects were m a in ly those approved by the Governmen t, covered by certain promotional regimes, or financed by interna- tional institutions or the Bank of the Republic. June 27. Circular No. 646 abolished the m in imum financing requirement of 180 days for all private sector impor ts with effect f rom Ju ly 1. Future sales of exchange (ventas futuras) could be contracted at any time up to 6 days before the date on which the foreign exchange was due to be paid abroad. June 30. Circular No. 650 shifted the foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports of books to the financial market. July 1. A new mone ta ry u n i t, the new peso, replaced the peso, at a ratio of NU r$l = Ur$ 1,000. July 1. The m in imum rate of value-added tax was increased to 7 per cent and the maximum rate to 20 per cent. August 6. Circular No. 655 extended the exemption from the 35 per cent m in imum advance deposit to capi- tal goods for the production of exports in the meat pack ing indus t ry. August 9. Circular No. 656 exempted all private sec- tor imports of capital goods (as defined by the Govern- ment) from the 35 per cent m in imum advance deposit. URUGUAY August 11. Circular No. 659 provided that the fu ll exchange proceeds f rom nontraditional exports, includ- ing the equivalent of imported inputs, had to be sold at the exchange rate prevailing on the due date (not later than 210 days a f ter sh ipmen t). Previously, the foreign exchange corresponding to the imported inputs had to be sold to the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the date of importation, wherever the domestic value added was 20 per cent or less. August 13. Circular No. 664 modified the list of imports exempt from the 35 per cent advance deposit. August 18. Circular No. 668 permitted the amour it in U.S. dollars outstanding in the special accounts arising f rom the difference between m i n im um surrender price (aforo) and sales price of exports to be exchanged at any moment in the financial market. August 29. Circular No. 670 provided that the maxi- mum permitted foreign exchange position of commercial banks could be modified to take into account the increase in the value of the gold they held. September 5. C ircu lar No. 672 reduced f rom 60 days to 30 days after export registration the period within which the export proceeds from dry leather must be surrendered to the Central Bank. September 16. Decree No. 699/75 reduced the retention on wool to 2 per cent of the f.o.b. value and changed the tax credit rate (reintegro) for combed wool to 16 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Previously, both were expressed as fixed amoun ts per kilogram. This Decree also established that banks were not obliged to surrender to the Central Bank the excess of actual wool prices over aforo values; when actual prices were lower than aforo values, banks were required to surrender the latter. September 23. Decree No. 716/75 changed the import surcharge for tractors to 15 per cent and for assembled trucks to 40 per cent. October 9. Decree No. 767/975 eliminated the re tendon on beef exports. October 15. Circular No. 682 exempted the import of tractor kits, truck kits, and diesel engines from the m in imum advance deposit of 35 per cent. October 15. Circular No. 683 allowed the payment, ahead of schedule, of commercial arrears covered by Circular No. 409. October 27. Circular No. 689 exempted f rom the m in imum advance deposit of 35 per cent imports of spare parts for export industries, up to an amount equal to 3 per cent of total exports in the previous semester. October 28. Circular No. 690 stated that purchases of exchange for imports, later than 180 days from the date on which the import payment was due, must be made in the financial market. October 31. Circular No. 691 modified the documen- tation requirements for the sale of foreign exchange for import payments. November 3. Circular No. 692, implementing Decree No. 785/975, eliminated the external financing require- ments for imports of capital goods. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY November 6. Circular No. 696 revoked the exemp- tion from recargos and advance deposits for freight on imports carried by national flag vessels. November 13. Decree No. 861/1975 set new detrac- ciones for certain categories of leather products. December 2. Circular No. 704 abolished the 35 per cent advance import deposit requirement introduced in April. December 2. Decree No. 923/975 (see also Circular No. 705) established an import surcharge (recargo tributario a la importation) of 7 per cent on most imports. The surcharge was payable on the day follow- ing the date of import registration, and the applicable exchange rate was that ruling at the end of that day. The new recargo was in addition to the existing recargos. Exemptions included capital goods (as listed in Decree No. 410/975 of May 22, 1975), certain intermediate agricultural imports, tractor and truck kits, and certain diesel engines. December 11. New detracciones were set for cow and calf hides and skins. December 19. Circular No. 709 revised the list of commodities considered as traditional exports. December 19. Circular No. 713 modified the regis- tration requirements under the Foreign Investment Act of 1974. The Circular also set forth the following con- ditions for the acceptance of external loans by firms with registered foreign investment: (1) the rate of interest could be no more than 2 per cent above current mar- ket rates; (2) the maturity must not be less than one year if for working capital, or if for fixed capital, not less than a period related (according to a schedule) to the size of the loan; and (3) the amortization period could not be less than six months. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bolivar. Exchange transac t ions take place at the following rates.1 The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases export proceeds f rom petroleum and iron ore at Bs 4.20 per US$1. Any proceeds f rom exports of cacao and coffee that are offered for sale to the Central Bank must be purchased by it at Bs 4.285 per US$1. The Central Bank sells exchange to the Govern- ment and its agencies and to the commercial banks (for sales to the public only) at Bs 4.285 per US$1 2 and to the state agency, Petroleos de Venezuela (Petroven) a tB s. 4.20 per US$1. The commercial banks purchase fore ign exchange f rom the public at rates close to Bs 4.28 per US$1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.30 per US$1 for all transactions; foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange th at has not been obtained f rom the Central Bank. Some fore ign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buy ing and selling rates u sua l ly are slightly below Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U.S. dollars at Bs 4.27 and resells at Bs 4.30 after 180 days. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the M in is try of Development or the M in is try of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the com- modity; for certain agr icu l tural products, the prior approval of the Agr icu l tural Ma rke t ing Corporation must be obtained before applications for export licenses are submitted to these ministries. Under the terms of an agreement between the Government and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to imports of wheat for human con- sumption and to certain exports of coffee and cacao. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) is charged with the supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trade- marks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Republic, 1 The exchange rates given (except those for the Central Bank's swap transactions) are those applicable to sight d ra f ts on New York. 2 The Central Bank does not sell fo re ign exchange to the public but does sell m inor amoun ts to its s ta ff and certain gove rnment off ic ia ls, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1, for travel expenses. Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the coun- tries concerned. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include fully assembled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, citrus fru i t, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigar- ette paper, na tural pearls, and matches. In addition, many other commodities require import licenses; quan t i ta t ive restrictions applicable irrespective of origin are ma in ta ined on some of these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South A f r ica. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan t i ty import (contingentamiento). All other commodities are free from import licensing. Wheat for human consumption is imported by the Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Corporation and receives a subsidy of 25.55 per cent of the f.o.b. value, calculated at Bs 4.30 per US$1. Imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited in prin- ciple to 14 per cent per annum of registered foreign capital. Resident and nonresident travelers must on depar ture pay a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, foreign tour- ists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of in te rna t ional organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodi- ties. Export licenses for most commodities are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agr icu l ture and Livestock. Exports of products con- ta in ing subsidized imported wheat are subject to special arrangemen ts to ensure that the subsidy received is repaid. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Part of the proceeds from exports of petroleum and iron ore must be surrendered to the Central Bank at 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Bs 4.20 per US$1. Otherwise, there are no surrender requirements for export proceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may (but need not) sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.285 per US$1; they may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from fa l l ing below speci- fied m in imum amounts regardless of external prices for these products. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements based on guaranteed m in imum prices may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Non- traditional exports, as well as certain agricultural exports, are eligible for freely negotiable tax certificates, as an export incentive, provided that the value added nation- ally is at least 30 per cent. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are exports of petroleum and military equip- ment to the People's Republic of China and North Korea. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. The importation of Venezuelan gold coins is reserved for the Central Bank. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are per- mitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, how- ever, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law of December 30, 1970 (as amended on September 7, 1974 and on May 22, 1975) authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan .gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated between licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely 494 negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses f rom the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs du ty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. All imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consular duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3*/2 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1975 January 1. The iron ore mining industry was national- ized. February 11. Decree No. 746 provided that contracts in force on January 1, 1974 for the importation of tech- nology or regarding patents and trademarks and noti- fied for registration in accordance with Decree No. 502 of October 29, 1974 had to be brought into conformity with Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement and the relevant norms of Decree No. 63 of April 28, 1974 by December 31, 1975. For those contracts not yet submitted to SIEX for registration, the corresponding date was March 31, 1976. Also, all contracts that for- eign, mixed, or national companies intended to con- clude for the importation of technology or regarding the use of patents and trademarks required the prior approval of SIEX, as well as ex post registration with SIEX. February 26. The Central Bank revoked the regula- tion requiring a 12 per cent interest rate and a 2 per cent commission rate for increases in borrowings over June 30, 1974 levels by companies with majority foreign ownership. March 21. Resolution No. 352 made imports into the free port of Isla Margarita subject to the same import licensing requirements applicable in the rest of Venezuela. April 17. A SIEX Resolution similar to Resolutions of June 17, 1974 and October 2, 1974 authorized until July 1 all foreign borrowing contracts or foreign lines of credit to be agreed by companies operating in Vene- zuela with foreign banks or financial institutions and with head offices or affiliates abroad, provided that such contracts were notified to SIEX for registration and that their maturity did not exceed 180 days. April 24. For statistical purposes only, commercial banks were required to report to the Central Bank all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in excess of foreign exchange purchases or sales Bs 5,000, indicating also the purpose. April 29. Regulations for the application of Deci- sion No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement were pub- lished. Foreign firms in many sectors would be required to sell 80 per cent of the ir assets to Venezuelan nationals by May 1, 1977. The disinvestment process would be supervised by SIEX. April 29. Decree No. 881 made Venezuelan exports to national free ports eligible for export incentives. April 29. Decree No. 882 enacted a new Capital Market Law. The previous law was repealed. May 15. A reciprocal credit agreement with Bolivia was signed. May 16. Decree No. 920 required all foreign com- panies operating vehicle-assembly p lan ts to conform w i th the requ iremen ts of the Cartagena Agreement, by selling equ i ty holdings to Venezuelans so as to become mixed or na t ional companies. May 16. Decree No. 921 required vehicles assembled in Venezuela to contain 75 per cent parts of local man- u f a c tu re by the end of 1980, and 90 per cent by 1985. May 22. A new General Bank ing Law, Law No. 869, was promulgated. May 22. Law No. 870 provided that w i th in two years insurance companies and brokerage firms must be at least 80 per cent Venezuelan owned. June 3. Decree No. 951 provided for the second reduction of import duties on goods originating in Andean Pact countries. The changes took effect on August 1. June 3. Decree No. 952 provided for the first and second approximation of import duties to the M in imum Common External Tariff of the Andean Pact. The duties on specified tariff items were increased for imports from third countries. The changes took effect on November 16. July 1. The SIEX authorization for borrowing abroad for up to 180 days (see April 17, above) was extended until December 31. (At the end of 1975, this authoriza- tion was again extended un t il April 4, 1976.) VENEZUELA July 1. Decree No. 1001 made exports of agricul- tural goods eligible for a bonus of up to 50 per cent in excess of the maximum export incentive, provided that the amount exported did not exceed 25 per cent of domestic consumption of the product concerned du r ing any crop year. August 4. The Minister in charge of the Venezuelan Investment Fund announced that the public sector would have to seek abroad part of the financing for new development projects. August 11. Foreign firms were required to submit to SIEX w i th in two months their plans for complying w i th the local ownership requirements of Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement. August 19. Joint Resolution No. 459 /284 made addi- tional items subject to import licensing and reserved add i t ional items for import by the Government. August 29. The bill to nationalize the oil industry was signed into law. The Government took control of the indus t ry through Petroven on Janua ry 1, 1976. August 30. Decree No. 1123 established a state hold- ing company for the oil industry, Petroven. September 11. It was established that the Central Bank would supply Petroven's foreign exchange require- ments at Bs 4.20 per US$1. October 22. Decree No. 1225 designated the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons and not SIEX as the com- petent authority to supervise the compliance with Decisions Nos. 24, 37, and 70 of the Cartagena Agree- ment by foreign firms operating in the petroleum and mining sectors. November 4. Resolution No. 634 made automobiles imported into the free port of Isla Margarita subject to the import duty (350 per cent) applicable in the rest of Venezuela. December 2. The Central Bank ordered the minting of a commemorative gold coin with a face value of Bs 500, which would be legal tender. December 12. Decree No. 1334 made international services performed by national airlines eligible for export incentives. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31,1975) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Western Samoa Tala has been established with the Fund. A central rate of WS$1 = US$1.67736 was established in 1973. The interven- tion currency is the U.S. dollar, and Western Samoa avails itself of wider margins. Since October 27, 1975 the exchange rate for the tala has been determined daily on the basis of the weighted basket of currencies used by New Zealand. On December 31, 1975 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were WS$0.7574 and WS$0.7755, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance operating as the exchange control authority; the Minister may delegate his approval authority to the Financial Secretary, who in tu rn may delegate part of his powers to authorized banks. All payments to non- residents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry, however, has dele- gated to the Bank of Western Samoa, the only autho- rized bank, authority to approve certain payments up to any amount and certain other payments up to speci- fied amounts. Prescription of Currency Western Samoa has ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Most settlements with Sterling Area ter- ritories take place in Sterling Area currencies, but there are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which pay- ments to or f rom nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited from all sources for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported f rom any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives an annual alloca- tion of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a semiannual basis, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automobiles.1 The allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the Bank of Western Samoa; the 1 Rice, flour, sugar, milk products, and canned fish may be imported freely outside the allocation system. 496 latter automatically provides the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of docu- mentary evidence. Persons who are not licensed import- ers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. The import of all motor vehicles requires an advance deposit of 50 per cent of the retail value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the Bank of Western Samoa up to any amount or within limits determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for all other invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Remittances in respect of study abroad are freely authorized. The Min- istry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pensions, rents, interests, and dividends by persons permanently resident overseas. Residents traveling to American Samoa, whether for business or private purposes, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$50 a person a quarter; an additional allowance of US$15 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other countries is equivalent to WS$10 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary alloca- tions when evidence of genuine need is provided. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic short- ages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board and banana exports by the Produce Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa within a reasonable time after shipment. Where exceptional cir- cumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Resident travelers must on return sell to the Bank all foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but no domestic banknotes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the M in is t ry of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The t rans fer of legacies f rom estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries permanen t ly residing overseas is approved up to a l im it of WS$ 10,000 a year. The Bank of West- ern Samoa approves t rans fe rs of g i f ts to relatives and dependents, either for special f am i ly occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam- ily group. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incen- tive Act No. 27/1965, as amended in 1969, makes pro- vision for the gran t ing of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repa t r ia t ion of capital and profit remittances on fore ign capital are subject to approval by the M in is ter of Finance; such approval is norma l ly gran ted. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports^ of gold in any form. WESTERN SAMOA Changes during 1975 January I. The foreign exchange allocations for 1975 for importers came into effect. Imports of rice, flour, sugar, milk products, and canned fish ceased to be sub- ject to exchange allocation and henceforth could be imported freely. Subsequently, the rate of approvals of import applications for motor vehicles for private use was reduced. April. The Monetary Board established in 1974 began func t ion ing. July. The import and export of domestic banknotes was effectively prohibited through nonredemption of such notes coming from overseas. August 11. Western Samoa's Commonwealth tar iff preferences were abolished. A single-line customs ta r i ff came into force. Goods for which duties were increased included automobiles, beer, cigarettes, and petroleum products. October 27. The currency was repegged f rom the U.S. dollar to the weighted basket of currencies used by New Zealand. Exchange rates were determined daily. The opening rates for the U.S. dollar were WS$0.7530 buying and WS$0.7634 selling, per US$1; the opening rates for the New Zealand dollar were WS$0.7944 buying and WS$0.8057 selling, per $NZ 1. Previously, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was WS$0.6066 = US$1. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established. All transac- tions take place in a free market at an exchange rate which in principle is a fluctuating one but since Febru- ary 1973 has remained unchanged. On December 31, 1975 the rate for the U.S. dollar was YR1 1 = US$0.22. Exchange rates for other currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of London cross rates against the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy who has the authority to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports. The only commercial banks and authorized dealers are the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development and seven branches of foreign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.1 Settlements are usually made in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are reserved for the Government. All other imports require import licenses. These are issued freely for all commodities for which government agencies or firms with government participation do not have the exclusive right of importation; three firms have such rights, for cigarettes, petroleum products, and medical supplies, respectively. In addition to a license, the impor- tation of certain commodities requires the permission of certain government agencies. The importation of cer- tain textiles requires the approval of the Sanaa textile factory. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the local banks or the free market; a m in imum margin deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. 1 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt. 498 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports require registration forms, which are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds; these may be retained in for- eign currency accounts w i th domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers. Both domestic and foreign investment are regulated by Law No. 18 of 1975. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or of their capital. Gold Two commemorative gold coins of YRls 20 and YRls 30 have been issued, which do not circulate in the Yemen Arab Republic. By virtue of Ministerial Decree No. 21/1973 residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1975 June 22. Decree No. 26 of the Ministry of Informa- tion lifted the ban on imports of television sets. August 20. Law No. 23 of 1975 was enacted, which formally eliminated certain trade control and exchange control regulations which had not been enforced for some time. The authority to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports was transferred from the Central Bank to the Minister of Economy (with effect from November 15). The law also exempted the import and export of domestic and foreign currency by travelers from prior Central Bank approval. It came into force immediately and superseded the Exchange Control Law, Law No. 16 of 1964. August 20. A new Investment Law, Law No. 18 of 1975, was enacted. It was applicable to investment by Yemenis as well as foreign nationals and superseded Law No. 13 of 1970. October 16. The granting of licenses for imports from Japan was suspended. The suspension was terminated in early 1976. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is issued by the Bank of Yemen ( the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value for the Yemeni d inar has been established with the Fund. Since February 1973, the central rate has been YD 1 = US$2.89523 or US$1 = YD 0.345395. On December 31, 1975, the Na t ional Bank of Yemen's buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Yemen's General Department for Exchange Control through the Foreign Exchange Com- mittee, which has delegated certain powers to the Direc- tor of Exchange Control, a member of the Committee. The Ministry of Economy and Indus try issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be car- ried out through the in termed iary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Director of Exchange Con tro l); at present the only commercial bank and authorized dealer is the National Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, and for payments by the oil refinery, all payments for imports ( inc lud ing those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Two public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, be low). The oil refinery is treated as a resi- dent entity but in its operations generally is not affected by the existing exchange and trade controls. Prescription of Currency The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the inter- mediary of authorized dealers in accordance with pre- scription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the United King- dom. All payments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Export proceeds and certain receipts f rom invisi- bles must be received in prescribed currencies l and 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. surrendered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held by certain persons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds f rom convertible foreign cur- rency transferred f rom abroad, with bank interest pay- able on such accounts, and with balances f rom other External Accounts. Transfers f rom abroad must be in the fo rm of bank draf ts; the accounts cannot be credited with payments in the fo rm of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en t ry ), or w i th locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain cases specified by the l aw ). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad f rom Nonresident Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any pay- ment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonresident accounts in for- eign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, all imports other than those of the oil refinery require individual licenses. Most overland merchanting trade with the Yemen Arab Republic is also exempt from the licensing requirements. Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. An import program is drawn up annually. In addition, importers may import any kind of goods with their own exchange; such imports are freely licensed. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary d ra f ts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other fo rms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. A Board of Trade is in charge of the trading activities of the nationalized companies. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. The National Import Company Ltd. imports certain consumer goods not mentioned in Law No. 37 of 1969. The National Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten) .2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the applica- tion. Foreign employees of approved enterprises and the oil refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes). All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not per- mitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Furthermore, nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are exempt from licenses. All exports to Israel and Rho- desia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Com- mittee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. The proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) when due and surrendered to authorized dealers. However, Yemeni nationals working abroad are allowed to establish non- resident foreign currency accounts. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes but not more than YD 5 in domestic currency. 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf States. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Pro- motion of Industrial Investment (Law No. 23 of May 14, 1971) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. All remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms under Law No. 23 also are subject to the Exchange Control Law (Law No. 16) and in any one year should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or a foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numis- matic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy and Industry (General Department for For- eign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Travelers may bring in or take out reasonable amounts of gold, in the form of ornaments only (not exceeding YD 100 in value for departing travelers). Imports and exports of gold by travelers are subject only to customs control, but if incoming nonresident travelers wish to sell any gold coins or bullion, they must sell them to an author- ized dealer. Changes during 1975 August 1. Foreign employees of the oil refinery were allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their total earnings (net of t ax ), instead of the previous three eighths. 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0433330 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar. Since July 12, 1973 the authorities have not ma in ta ined the exchange rate of the d inar w i th in announced marg ins and therefore all transac- tions, except for receipts and payments effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1975 were Din 17.9720 and Din 18.0260 per US$1, respectively. The currencies dealt in are Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti d inars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these ma t ters, the Fed- eral Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by v ir tue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regula- tions, makes decisions governing commercial transac- tions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secre- tariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia adm in is ter the exchange controls. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and f rom foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a m in imum credit fund of Din 500 million and deposits of at least Din 1,000 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (includ- ing the gran t ing of gua ran tees ). Limited authorized banks, which must have a m in imum credit fund amoun t- ing to Din 100 million and deposits of at least Din 200 million, may conduct fore ign exchange opera- tions in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fu l ly authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices may only deal in foreign bankno tes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks, hotels, and specifically authorized tourist agencies. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (bo th producing and trading unde r tak ings) registered for this purpose. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain condi- tions, inc lud ing the provision of m in imum working capital for trade enterprises, are fu lf i l led. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organiza- tions which export and /or import on their own behalf. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries w i th which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set for th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requ ir ing settlements through bilateral accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with A fghan is tan, A lban ia, Algeria,1 Brazil, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Hun- gary, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) in pounds sterling w i th Nor th Viet-Nam. Certain settlements with Bangladesh, Colombia, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. A degree of mu l t i la tera l iza t ion of payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements w i th A fghan i s tan, Ghana, and Hungary. For purposes of import and export licensing and the operation of nonresident accounts, Ghana and Hungary are considered to belong to the convertible area. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denom ina ted in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. For- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. For- eign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with authorized banks accounts expressed in fore ign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kep t; outward transfers in other convertible currencies 1 Settlements w i th Algeria took place in convertible currencies with effect f r om Janua ry 1, 1976. 2 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Other con- vertible currencies must be converted into one or more of the forego ing currencies. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA are subject to the account-holding bank being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo- slavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for permitted payments in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account hold- er's country of domicile. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars required in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his close family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties or from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pen- sions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accordance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the currency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid in the foreign currency deposited. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate family; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav emigrants residing abroad and former emigrants return- ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of the currencies of certain Eastern European coun- tries 3 and Mongolia, the accounts are denominated in dollars of account, and for North Viet-Nam in pounds sterling of account; for other bilateral currencies the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugo- slavia or for retransfers to the bilateral country to which the account is related. 3 Albania, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. 502 Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in for- eign trade. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial pro- ducers are registered. The import of certain basic food- stuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oils, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities import licenses are not re- quired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB—liberalized goods; DL—goods liberalized under special license; GDK—goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d ina rs ); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts, but they also include some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. Exchange for payments for LB imports from the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. DL goods comprise certain consumer items, for which special licenses are required for statistical and recording purposes. The Secretariat for Foreign Trade is obliged to issue the license within 20 days from the date of application. Once the license is obtained the importer may freely acquire foreign exchange for the import payment in the same manner as for LB goods. The GDK list comprises raw materials, other repro- duction materials, most capital equipment, and most of those consumer goods not liberalized under the LB and DL regimes. Such imports can be made under several different procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows: Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a con- siderable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, below), funds originating in depreciation allow- ances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. Economic organizations may acquire for- eign exchange at a predetermined proportion of their annual depreciation allowance, a ratio that varies according to the economic sector involved. For con- sumer goods, t rad ing enterprises agree w i th in the Eco- nomic Chambers on the distribution of GDK quotas among themselves; if the enterprises are unable to agree among themselves on a GDK allocation, the Federal Secretariat for Market and Prices will allocate this quota among them. Imports under commod i ty quotas (list RK or list DK), ma in ly selected agr icu l tural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also machine tools and certain plastics, are subject to quotas estab- lished for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quan t i t ies ( R K) or in d ina rs (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports f rom convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.4 Exchange is provided automatically for payments for impor ts of goods subject to the RK and DK regime, but only up to a predetermined quan t i ty or amount for each item. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammun i t ion, op ium, motor vehicles, tractors, railroad ro l l ing stock, a i rc ra f t, fer t i l izers, na tu ral gas, and b i tumen. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. These licenses au toma t ica l ly en t i t le an en terpr ise to purchase the requ is i te fore ign exchange. There is also a special list of goods whose import by enterprises requires ad hoc permission by the Secre- ta r iat for Foreign Trade, irrespective of any other requirement described above.5 At the end of 1975, the list comprised 413 items corresponding to 30.3 per cent of 1974 imports. For certain goods there is an additional requ iremen t, irrespective of those set out above, of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1975 these goods were 61 LB items, 5 RK items, 2 DK items, and 1 D item. For all items concerned, the Secretariat may prescribe direct impor ta t ion f rom the coun try of or ig in; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and f ru i t s, raw ma ter ia ls, fa ts, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold fore ign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these f u n ds freely to import goods in tended for their 4 In principle, any such allocation among impor ters must be agreed upon among economic organizations within the Economic Chambers. If the impor ters are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribu- t ion. Impo r ts of coffee, whea t, suga r, rice, and salt for final consump- tion are administered by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, which is au thor ized to select the most compe t i t ive impor ter f rom among registered impor ters. 5 With effect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1976 the list was abolished. YUGOSLAVIA own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely and at any time import machinery for small farms or equipment for hand ic ra ft production, up to Din 80,000 a shipment. Also, Yugoslavs re tu rn ing f rom work abroad and non- residents residing in Yugoslavia for more than three mon ths may import goods up to Din 80,000 intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided such goods were paid for from the savings f rom their foreign earnings; such savings may be held abroad or in foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals work ing abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that impo r ta t ion is effected through a registered enter- prise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt f rom this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the fo l low ing circumstances: when they return for per- manent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inhe r i ted; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance ind emn i ty received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con t inuous ly and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of the ir household. However, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 5,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation transac t ions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax ("contingency tax") 6 are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs duty. In addition, an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue at the border has to be paid for all du t iab le commodities, with the exception that the sur- charge is levied at a reduced rate of 5 per cen t7 for capital equ ipment for the development of basic primary product industries, for some reproduction materials, and for certain essential items such as butter, wheat flour, hides, and raw cotton. Many agricultural com- modities are subject to variable import levies. "Increased to 5 per cent with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976. 7 Increased to a range of 7-9 per cent with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1976. Also with effect f rom that date, the reduced rate was no longer applicable to bu t te r, wheat flour, and raw cotton. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferable under certain conditions. Pay- ments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia main- tains bilateral payments arrangements, then such pay- ments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done on a reciprocal basis. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of Din 1,000 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The National Bank may authorize the sale of any amount of foreign exchange for the foregoing and for unspecified purposes when justified in light of the circumstances. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fuel, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international freight and passenger transportation are liberalized. There is no basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, travel agencies may sell orga- nized tours abroad against payment in dinars up to an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of their individual retention quotas. The National Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel abroad. Payments for other in- visibles may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, from specific annual allocations). Not more than Din 1,000 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain livestock) and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("ac- cordance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approva l). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries or to export to other countries. In accordance with bilateral arrangements, Yugoslavia restrains exports of certain commodities to specified countries. 504 Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The full export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the rele- vant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enter- prises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely or used for certain payments abroad, but cannot earn interest. The permitted reten- tion rate is 20 per cent for all export earnings from goods and services, with the exception that a rate of 45 per cent applies to tourist organizations and a rate of 100 per cent applies to foreign exchange earnings of Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad and to Yugoslav enterprises operating under long-term cooperation agree- ments with foreign companies. (Enterprises with long- term cooperation agreements may in any case import up to the value of their production which is a result of that cooperation.) In some instances (services rendered to foreign tourists and sales of newly mined gold to the National B a n k ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota pur- poses. Producing enterprises selling specified consumer goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency may retain 20 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering services in payments agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Receipts from services are eligible for retention quotas; the quota for hotels and tourist agen- cies is 45 per cent. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while em- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ployed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may with- draw the ir balances in the fo rm of fore ign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold in teres t-bear ing fore ign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited w i th the f u ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used f ree ly for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his f am i l y; they are not t rans fe rab le to other persons or accounts and may be re ta ined for an indefi- n i te period of time. Authorized trade o rgan iza t ions may sell m anu f a c- tured goods to fo re ign tour is ts in Yugoslavia against payment in fore ign exchange at a discount freely estab- lished by the trade organ iza t ions themselves. This dis- count is granted only on purchases in authorized shops aga inst checks expressed in fo re ign currencies or aga inst cer ta in fo re ign bankno tes. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav bankno tes, in d enom in a t ions of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital 8 Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by f u l ly authorized banks and economic o rgan iza t ion s, w i th the exceptions that no consumer goods may be imported on de fe r red payment terms, and that no fo re ign f inanc ial credits may be taken up whose repayment te rms inc lude a grace period of less than two years.9 All other inwa rd or ou twa rd transfers of a capital na tu re by residents or nonres iden ts require ind iv idu al licenses. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded w i th the N a t ion al Banks of the republics. Loans must o rd in a r i ly be repaid w i th fo re ign exchange that is either obtained by the economic o rgan iza t ion concerned as export re ten t ion quotas and fo re ign exchange amor t iza t ion (dep rec ia t ion) allocations or acquired f rom banks according to the regu la t ions govern ing the fo re ign trade regime. Credits in the fo rmer category are subject to prior d inar deposit requirements; the deposits are noninterest bearing and are held w i th the Na t ional Banks of the republics un t il f u ll repayment of the foreign credits. For financial credits and fore ign exchange deposits received by business banks for the account of non- residents, the five basic rates of deposit introduced in April 1972 range f rom 1 per cent for ma tu r i t ies over ten years to 40 per cent for ma tu r i t ies of less than two years. However, as a temporary measure beg inn ing in mid-December 1972, a d in ar deposit of 75 per cent was required for all financial credits and foreign exchange deposits by nonresidents regardless of maturity. For 8 New regulations govern ing the tak ing up of fo re ign loans and the acceptance of fore ign deposits were published in the Official Gazette on February 20, 1976. 9 When en terpr ises issue bonds abroad, they may use 80 per cent of the fo re ign exchange proceeds for the impo rt of e q u i pm e nt and spare pa r ts for the ir own needs. YUGOSLAVIA credits for the impor ta t ion of capital goods, the deposit rates at the end of 1975 were 20 per cent for credits w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to three years; 10 per cent for credits of between three and five years; and 1 per cent for credits w i th a m a tu r i ty over five years. However, if the capital goods were imported for investments in underdeveloped regions of Yugoslavia, the latter deposit rates were 10 per cent for credits with a ma tu r i ty of up to three years and 1 per cent for credits w i th a longer ma tu r i ty and for all credits for the impo rt of specially produced capital equipment. Certain fore ign credits are specifically exempted from the foregoing deposit requ iremen ts; these include credits f rom specified in te rna t ional f inanc ial organizations, credits contracted for or on behalf of the Federal Gov- e rnment or the Na t ional Bank, and credits contracted for the impor ta t ion of equ ipment in tended for high- p r io r i ty sectors and activities as def ined by Decisions of the Federal Executive Council. Foreign credits repayable w i th fo re ign exchange acquired according to the regu la t ions governing the fo re ign trade regime are trade credits for raw materials and in te rmed ia te goods, u sua l ly w i th a ma tu r i ty of up to 360 days. These are exempt f rom deposit require- ments. As an exception, if the goods imported on credit are und er the LB regime, 25 per cent must be deposited w i th the Na t ional Banks of the republics or the autono- mous provinces as a downpayment and the rema in ing 75 per cent is payable at ma tu r i ty. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic o rgan iza t ions but on ly through jo int ven tures; such fo re ign inves tment is l im i ted to 49 per cent of the organ iza t ion's cap i ta l. Profit t rans fe rs abroad may be f inanced f r om the re ten t ion quo ta and, in add i t ion, p ro f it t rans fe rs are pe rm i t ted up to one third of the j o i nt venture's fo re ign currency ea rn ings f rom exports of goods and services. If the law governing jo int ven- tures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a jo int ven tu re would con t inue to be applied du r ing the en t ire l i fe of the inve s tment contract, if the foreign investor so desires or, at the latter's option, any more favorab le provisions of the amended legislation would be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons are perm i t ted to purchase bonds issued by Yugoslav enter- prises, sociopolitical commun i t ies, and other sociolegal persons. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated w i th in 90 days; however, when repatriated the profits are governed by the regulations for retention quotas. Residents are obliged to repatriate and, with the exception of inher- itances, to surrender all foreign exchange held or accru- ing abroad on capital account. Outward capital transfers by residents who are physi- cal persons are not approved. Economic organizations w ish ing to participate in foreign enterprises may be 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA allowed under special conditions, by the Federal Sec- retariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance, to export the necessary capital. Also, a Decision of the Federal Executive Council of Octo- ber 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to con- tinue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years f rom the date of distribu- tion of the estate. Gold The National Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration and, for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the National Bank or to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, impor t, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trad ing in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the rate of Din 17 per U.S. dollar to a price of US$42.22 an ounce) are re- garded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota of 20 per cent in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the pro- ducers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic eco- nomic organizations using gold for their normal activi- ties may purchase gold f rom domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1975 January 1. Following the expiration on December 31, 1974 of the bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Poland, and Roman ia, settlements w i th these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 10. Foreign f inanc ial credits for the purchase of equipment intended for investment in jo int enter- prises in developing countries became exempt f rom the deposit requirement. January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Iraq expired. February 15. Foreign f inanc ial credits for the pur- chase of equipment for use in connection with projects of the International Bank for Reconstruction and De- velopment outside Yugoslavia became exempt from the deposit requirement. February 15. Modifications were introduced in the regulations concerning the holding of nonresident accounts. 506 February 21. The import surcharge was reduced to 2 per cent for a number of goods imported for the use of the Yugoslav Railways. February 28. Petroleum, natural gas, and coke were transferred f rom the LB import regime to the D import regime. Petroleum and petroleum products were also transferred from the LB export regime to the D export regime. March 7. Import duties on equipment imported under long-term production cooperation agreements were reduced by 40 per cent for the remainder of 1975. March 28. Oilseeds and vegetable oils were trans- ferred f rom the LB to the D export regime. March 28. Quotas for imports dur ing 1975 of coffee, corn, rice, and sugar were fixed. April 5. Foreign financial credits for the import of equipment for priority industrial sectors (as defined in the Resolution on Social and Economic Policy for 1975) were freed f rom the deposit requirement. April 11. Some 130 goods corresponding to about 2.3 per cent of 1974 imports were transferred from the LB to the D impo rt regime un t il December 31. On Janua ry 1, 1976, they reverted to their original classifi- cation. Engine oil was transferred f rom the DL to the D import regime. April 30. The import surcharge was increased from 6 per cent to 10 per cent; the special lower rate was increased f rom 2 per cent to 5 per cent. May 31. A decision of the Federal Executive Council was gazetted providing that organizations which contract impo r ts must submit documents showing that they have "assured foreign exchange for the payment of contracted imports." It was understood that "assured foreign ex- change" included export earnings in 1975. June 7. All interest on resident foreign exchange accounts was authorized to be paid in foreign exchange; previously, interest was payable partially in dinars. June 13. Some 31 items were removed from the DL import regime; 3 were placed under the LB regime and 2 under the RK, 13 under the DK, and 13 under the D regimes. June 21. The import of some 413 items amounting to 30.3 per cent of 1974 imports was made subject to the ad hoc approval of the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade under the special accordance procedure; imports of goods under the provisions of long-term production cooperation agreements with foreign companies were exempt. The requ irement of a special accordance was term ina ted on December 31. June 26. The advance import deposit requirements introduced in August 1974 were abolished. July 5. A law came into force which empowered the Na t ional Bank to issue bonds on foreign markets, up to US$50 m i l l ion, for purposes of strengthening the na- t ional exchange reserves. July 19. The Australian dollar was added to the Na t ional Bank's list of "currencies significant for main- taining l iqu id i ty for international payments." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA August 1. Authorized banks guaranteeing credits contracted abroad were permitted exceptionally to issue such guarantees to jo int enterprises founded in develop- ing countries, provided that the share of the Yugoslav partner in the investment was at least 30 per cent. August 13. Forward exchange transactions were per- mitted between authorized banks. August 16. The amount of foreign exchange author- ized for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses was increased from the equivalent of Din 600 to Din 1,000. August 16. Certain financial and bank credits con- tracted abroad were freed from deposit requirements. September 13. A special foreign exchange quota of Din 806,248,000 for 1975 was created for the import of equipment to be financed from the resources of the Federal Fund for Promoting the Rapid Economic Devel- opment of the Insufficiently Developed Republics and Autonomous Provinces. This special quota represented a limit on the cash payments that could be made in connection with the import of equipment purchased either on credit or on a cash basis. December 31. The regulation that made imports of 413 items subject to special permission from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade expired. December 31. The import surcharge was extended un t il December 31, 1976. The reduced rate was in- creased from 5 per cent to a range of 7-9 per cent. December 31. The 3 per cent tax equalization charge was increased to 5 per cent. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Zaire. A central rate of Z 1 = US$2 has been established,1 and Zaire avails itself of wider marg ins. The interven- tion currency is the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Zai're (the central b a n k) quotes an official rate of exchange for the Belgian f ranc based on the rate for the zaire quoted on the official exchange market in Brussels. The buy ing and selling rates for other quoted currencies, except the U.S. dollar, the French franc, and the CFA franc, also are based on official market rates in Brussels. For the U.S. dollar, the Bank of Zaire quotes a fixed rate of Z 1 = US$2, buying and selling. Quotations for the French f ranc and the CFA f ranc are based on daily quotations for the zaire in the official exchange market in Paris. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to permit the impor ta t ion, exportation, and t rans it of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments f rom nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire.2 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. However, certain settlements w i th Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Uganda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may only be debited with the approval of the Bank of Zai're. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and in terna t ional organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be cred- ited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; they !With effect from March 12, 1976 the central ra te was changed to Z 1 = SDR 1. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, CFA francs, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 508 may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authorization from the central bank to open these accounts w i th authorized banks; nonresident for- eigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited in accordance with Circular No. 131 3 and debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any pay- ments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammun i t ion, narcotics, and jukeboxes. The importation of certain automobiles is prohibited for economic rea- sons. Import licenses submitted to the Bank of Zai're for prior approval are required for most commodities other than certain priority items (ma in ly foodstuffs, Pharmaceuticals, and intermediate goods). For most goods subject to license the importer must obtain either a discount of 6 per cent from the exporter's list price or a credit of at least 180 days after shipment. Those imports which are not subject to import license approved by the Bank of Zaire are subject to import declarations, which do not require the approval of the central bank. The central bank has issued a general import and pay- ments license which for such goods guarantees the availability of foreign exchange4 when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declara- tion with his bank following the actual placing of the order and provided that invoice price and quality have been verified and found acceptable by the foreign cor- respondents of the Office Zairois de Controle. Such verification is also required for all other imports. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made out at authorized banks, which forward the applications to the central bank af ter certification. Af ter approval of the applica- tion by the central bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the in termed iary authorized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks remain valid for customs clearance for six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which validation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is in principle made available for all licensed imports, the validated license constituting at the same time an 3 Conversion of foreign cu r rency at the official rate, transfer from another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized payments by residents to nonresidents. 4 This guaran tee has been temporar i ly suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange license; for payments purposes, the license rema ins va l id as long as the re levant paymen ts have not been completed. For certain p r io r i ty impor ts covered by trade credits of 60 days or more the Bank of Zaire is prepared to gua ran tee the provision of fore ign exchange when the payment fa l ls due. The counterpart of the value of goods impor ted under the Belgian food aid p rog ram, the U.S. impo rt support program, and the ag r icu l tu ral aid program must be deposited w i th in 120 to 180 days a f ter their shipment. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem and a turnover tax of 9 per cent. In addi- tion, most impor ts, irrespective of o r ig in, are subject to a tempo ra ry impo rt surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad va lorem on the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formu la ted by the central bank. Cer ta in paymen ts are subject to au tho r iza t ion by the cen tral b ank; the approval au tho r i ty for other cu r rent paymen ts has been delegated to the authorized banks. The cen tral bank w i ll not au thor ize exchange for the p aym ent of comm iss ions in favor of shippers or pu rcha s ing agents or, except for impor ts payable on a r r iva l, and prov ided that the supplier has arranged i t, for in su rance on impo r ts. Fur thermore, impor ts and exports between Za i re and ports in Be lg ium, the Federal Repub l ic of G e rm any, the Ne the r lands, and the Scand inav ian coun tr ies must be shipped in vessels pa r t ic ipa t ing in the con fe rence of the Associated Cen tral West A f r i ca Lines. Banks are not au tho r ized to pay in fore ign currency the m a r i t ime f re ight on sh ipmen ts that do not meet these regu la t ion s, unless an immed ia te dis- count is obtained on the invoice, and in the case of exports, banks are not au tho r ized to v a l id a te export declarations unless these are ma rked accord ing ly. Trans- fers abroad of ren ts, profits, d iv idends, salaries of fo re ign na t iona ls, and certain other paymen ts for cu r rent inv is i- bles are either suspended or restricted. Transfers of royalties require the prior approval of the Service de la Propriete Indus tr ie l le. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Za ire in local currency. Za i r ian na t iona ls trave l ing abroad may buy fo re ign exchange in amoun ts depend ing on the du ra t ion of the jou rn ey, up to the equ iva lent of Z 400 a t r ip; app l ica t ions exceeding th is amount are subject to ind iv id- ual approval by the central bank. The export of domes- tic bankno tes and coins is proh ib i ted. Non res ident travelers may take out any fo re ign means of payment declared upon en t ry, m inus the equ iva len t, at the off ic ial ra te, of Z 20 for each day spent in Za ire. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general license require ind iv idual declarations. Banks are no rma l ly authorized to approve such declarations, in which exporters unde r- take to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration ZAIRE must specify the na ture of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the t ime required for processing abroad. For mineral products exported by the Generate des Carrieres et M ines du Zaire (GECAM INE S ), a provisional payment of a variable portion of the shipment's estimated value has to be received and surrendered within 8 days after sh ipmen t. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a p re l im ina ry examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds f rom coffee must be surrendered w i th in 45 days a f ter sh ipmen t. Receipts f rom other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated w i th in three months of va l ida t ion. The exportation of coffee is a monopoly of the Na t ional Coffee Office. M in imum export prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, and certain other commodities. All exports are sub ject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad va lorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered. The import of domestic banknotes and coins is proh ib i ted. Nonresident travelers may bring in any am o u nt in fo re ign means of payment and may take out on depa r tu re the amount declared on entry, less the e q u i v a l e nt of Z 20 a calendar day spent in Zaire. Capital The repa t r ia t ion of new fore ign capital brought in und er the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordi- nance-Law No. 69-032 of June 26, 1969 as amended by Law No. 74-004 of 1974) is guaranteed, as is the trans- fer of p ro f i ts and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other t rans fe rs abroad of capital owned by residents or nonres iden ts are not permitted. Gratuitous t ran s fe rs of real estate are subject to approval by execu- t ive o rd inance. The fore ign currency assets of the au tho r ized banks are not permitted to exceed their short- te rm l iab i l i t ies in fo re ign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and indus t r ial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any fo rm, except jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank. Producers are not required to sell their production to the central bank. All newly produced gold is exported, w i th the exception of small quantities used domestically for the manu fac tu re of jewelry. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE Changes during 1975 January 1. All construction firms and firms producing construction materials were placed under government control, as were large enterprises in the fields of d is tr ibu- tion and public transpor t; fore ign enterprises subject to the provisions of the Investment Code were exempted f rom the measure. Foreign banks would not be allowed to open branches outside Kinshasa. January 5. It was announced that Zairian citizens were required to t ran s fer to the State any immovable property or securities they held abroad. January 6. Central Bank Circular No. 147 provided that imports could not be shipped to Zai're w i thout prior attestation by the Office Zairois de Controle; the attesta- tion now became necessary also to open a documen tary credit in favor of the shipper. January 10. With effect f rom Janua ry 8, Circular No. 148 added a large number of commodities to the list of goods subject to import licensing (List A ), mostly textiles, garmen ts, and footwear. January 28. Circular No. 149 provided that all physi- cal persons of Za i r ian na t iona l i ty and all ju r id ical per- sons constituted according to Za ir ian law were required to repa tr ia te by September 30, 1975 any bank balances they held abroad that were denom ina ted in foreign cur- rencies. Such persons could open Repatriation Accounts with authorized banks in Zai're. These were anonymous numbered accounts denominated in fore ign currencies. They could only be credited with repatriated bank bal- ances; they could be debited free ly only for the payment of amoun ts due in zaires to residents or for the sale to an authorized bank of foreign currency balances held on these accounts. January 29. The existing open license system for imports, under which licenses w i th the visa of the Bank of Zaire were required only for items in List A, was replaced with a negative list system. Henceforth, all commodities were subject to licenses approved by the Bank of Zai're, except for a small number of specified items (ma in ly essential foods tu f fs, Pharmaceuticals, and intermediate goods). For many goods, licenses were not norma l ly issued. Documentary sight credits payable upon shipment for commodities subject to license were to be limited in 1975 to 10 per cent of their 1974 level. For other imports of goods subject to license (imports pay- able upon a r r iva l ), the importer was required to obtain either a trade credit of at least 180 days f rom the date of shipment, or a discount of 6 per cent f rom the current list price for the commodity ( for in termed ia te goods subject to license, however, the previous requirement of a 90-day credit or a 3 per cent d iscount was re ta ined ). (Letter No. 6821.) January 29. Transfers of rents and t rans fe rs for expenses of purchasing or representative offices abroad were suspended. Transfers of profits and dividends, which had been suspended de facto since Novem- ber 1973, were forma l ly suspended, w i th the exception 510 that fore ign shareholders employed in a local enterprise (associes actifs) were permitted to remit profits in 12 mon th ly ins ta l lmen ts following the completion of the enterprise's fiscal year. The restrictions on transfers of ren ts, profits, and dividends did not apply to firms for which guarantees existed under the Investment Code or under bilateral intergovernmental agreements (Letter No. 6821 ). February 12. Exemption f rom import licensing was extended to a number of additional priority products (Letter No. 7794). March. An indicative foreign exchange budget was introduced. March 24. Imports of foods tu f fs and Pharmaceuticals or ig ina t ing in or shipped f rom Belgium were made sub- ject to specific licensing. In principle such imports were to be limited to 15 per cent of their 1974 level. June 20. The impor ta t ion of certain foodstuffs and pharmaceu t ical products was reserved exclusively to specified local companies. July 31. For certain priority imports covered by trade credits of 60 days or more, the central bank was pre- pared to guaran tee the provision of the necessary foreign exchange when the payment fell due (Letter No. 7250). Subsequently, additional items became eligible for this guarantee. July 31. Salary transfers abroad on behalf of expatri- ates work ing in Zai're were limited, at both the individ- ual and the global level, to the amoun ts transferred in 1974. No new expatriates could be hired except for the setting up of new enterprises or to replace departing employees; central bank approval was required for each ind iv idual hired. No enterprises could increase individ- ual expatriate salaries. Insurance premiums, vacation allowances, and social security premiums of expatriates had to be deposited in special accounts, from which transfers abroad could be permitted in due course at the discretion of the central bank. Shipping insurance on imports payable upon shipment had to be taken out with SON AS; as before, insurance in foreign currency was only allowed for imports payable after arrival (Letter No. 7250). August 18. The President announced that Zai're would begin to accept payment in Afr ican currencies for its exports. September 1. The importation of pharmaceutical products was reserved for a government agency. September 27. Agreement was reached with Belgium on the creation of a Belgian-Zai'rian jo int committee to examine bilateral relations. October 22. The 1973 ban on exports of timber was lifted. November 25. The President announced a "new eco- nomic policy." The activities of the private sector and the mixed economy sector would be accentuated. December 30. A decision in principle was announced to re turn certain nationalized enterprises to the former owners. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zamb ian Kwacha, and Zamb ia avails itself of w ider ma rg ins. The effective pa r i ty re la t ionsh ip for the U.S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, is K 1 = US$1.55556 or US$1 =K 0.642856. The Bank of Zambia m a in t a ins fixed buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U.S. do l lar. Since Feb rua ry 15, 1973, these rates have been Mo of 1 per cent below pa r i ty for b u y i ng (US$1 = K 0.64246) and V-i of 1 per cent above pa r i ty for selling (US$1 = K 0 .64447). The Bank of Zamb ia deals on ly w i th au thor ized commerc ial banks in Zamb ia. The au thor ized banks no rma l ly charge an add i t ional }£ of 1 per cent plus any cable costs when dea l ing w i th customers. The Bank of Zamb ia bases its rates for sterling on the cu r rent rates for the U.S. dollar in the London marke t; it nor- ma l ly deals only in U.S. dollars and s te r l ing. Au thor ized banks are f ree to deal w i th customers in o ther cu r ren- cies, and base their rates on the Bank of Zambia's rates for the U.S. dollar and the current London ma rket rates for the currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in i s te red by the Bank of Zamb ia under powers delegated to it by the M in i s ter of Finance. Much of the au tho r i ty for app rov ing no rmal current paymen ts is in tu rn delegated to commerc ial banks au thor ized to deal in fo re ign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the respons ib i l i ty of the M in is ter of Com- merce, who also issues impo rt and export licenses. Over- all impo rt policy is made by a comm i t tee on which the M in is try of Commerce, the M in i s t ry of F inance, and the Bank of Zambia are represented. Prescription of Currency Zamb ia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regu la t ions con- t inues to be regarded as a coun try of the Overseas Ster- l ing Area. Au thor ized paymen ts, in c lud ing paymen ts for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries other th an Rhodesia may be made in Zamb ian currency to the credit of an External Accoun t, or in any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Paymen ts f rom residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zamb ian currency f rom an External Account, or in any fo re ign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. Special regula- tions apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia mu st be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zamb ian currency to an External Account —Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United K ingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canad ian dollars. Proceeds f rom exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canad ian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments f rom residents of Zamb ia, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any fore ign currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any pur- pose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign cu r rency other than Rhodesian currency f rom author- ized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zamb ian currency held with au tho r ized banks by residents of any coun try other than Zamb ia are credited w i th non transferab le capital sums in Zamb ian currency and w i th any unrem i t tab le portion of rents which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the inves tment of balances on blocked accounts in Zamb ian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely trans- fe rab le to the account holder's coun try of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments V i r tu a l ly all imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import f rom all countries of certain specified com- modities for health, safety, or moral reasons. Personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transpor ta t ion entering Zambia temporarily do not require ind iv idual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person impo r t ing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The two ma jor m in ing companies and the M in is try of Health are granted "blanket licenses" for bona fide requ iremen ts. The Controller of Customs is authorized to adm it emergency goods imported w i thout prior refer- ence to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports requ ire individual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports w i th in a qua r te r ly exchange allocation established by the Minis- try of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. All imports under ind iv idual licensing are first divided into SITC 1 three- 1 S tanda rd In te rna t ional Trade Classification. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA digit groups and further subdivided into end-use group- ings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally, raw ma ter ia ls, in termed ia te goods for further processing in Zambia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic bev- erages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for specified luxury consumer goods or for items that are produced locally. The Ministry of Commerce has designated certain import agencies as authorized to allocate foreign exchange among individ- ual applicants. These agencies include the National Import and Export Corporation and Zambia Railways. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank. Prior approval by the Bank of Zambia, however, is necessary for payments to Rhodesia and South Africa in excess of K 20,000; payments for imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are not normally permitted unless no alternative source of supply is available. Most imported goods are subject on customs clear- ance to sales tax, at a rate of 25 per cent, calculated on the sum of 120 per cent of the customs value plus the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as business travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authori- ties, except when payments and transfers in excess of K 20,000 to Rhodesia or South Afr ica are involved. Special reduced allocations apply to payments for invis- ibles to Rhodesia, and authorized dealers are not per- mitted to make foreign exchange available for travel to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 40 a day for up to 15 days a person a calen- dar year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education and medical treat- ment. Applications for amoun ts exceeding the limits may in certain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional treatment is justified. No exchange is granted for tourist travel. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to exist- ing contracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 512 branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 10 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital or 30 per cent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller.3 For- eign companies operating in Zambia may remit declared profits and dividends once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allow- ances is not permitted. Remittances of rents to nonresi- dents are restricted to 50 per cent of net annual rental income. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract basis and recruited after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit to their country of domicile a third of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals recruited before December 4, 1971 and still employed on a contract entered into prior to that date are allowed to remit to their country of domicile one half of their annual earn- ings. Foreign na t iona ls availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; only one third of their leave pay is transferab le. To fac i l i ta te payments of small amounts, individuals are freely permitted to rem it abroad up to K 10 a mon th for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities (including f am i ly m a in t en an c e ). Travelers may not take out Zambian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license; minerals, however, are exported under general agree- ments w i th the m in ing companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are sub- ject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of ship- ment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that 3 An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations after full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may be imported by travelers, except that travelers f rom Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equ iva lent of K 20. The import of Zamb ian currency by travelers is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted bu t, w i th the exception of overseas shor t- term financing of imports other than cer ta in capital goods, all bo r row ing outside Zamb ia requires the approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies. Ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their inves tmen ts when they have satisfied the au tho r i t ies that the or ig inal inves tment was made with funds brought in to the coun t ry f r om sources outside Zamb ia. Local borrow ing by companies controlled e i ther d i rec t ly or indirectly f rom outside Zambia is restricted to a d eb t / equ i ty ra t io of 1 to 2. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this l im it for ce r ta in p r io r i ty sectors of the economy, provided the borrowings secure higher emp loyment oppo r tun i t ies and /or savings of foreign exchange. In genera l, res iden ts are not pe rm i t ted to t ran s fer capital abroad and, w i th ce r ta in exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an au thor ized bank any fore ign exchange wh ich accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Z amb i an secur i t ies quo ted on recognized stock exchanges ab road, prov ided that the secu r i t ies so acqu i red are registered in the names of specified nom inees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repa- triated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repa t r ia ted. Em ig ran ts are g ran ted exchange as fo l lows: ( 1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on depar ture, and subsequent annu al t rans fe rs of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on depar ture, together w i th K 250 for each child, up to a m ax imum of K 5,000 for a f am i ly un i t. Thereaf ter, annual t ran s fe rs of K 3,000, together w i th K 250 for each ch i ld, up to a max imum of K 4,000 for a f am i ly un it are permitted. (3) Unmarr ied persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on depa r tu re, and subsequent a n n u al transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigration a l lowance, em ig ran ts may rem it gra tu i t ies, compensa- t ion paymen ts, and te rm inal bene f i ts up to a max imum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual t ran s fe r s. In add i t ion, there are special fac i l i t ies for expa tr ia te fa rme r s. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for num isma t ic purposes. W i th th is exception, residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other th an jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm o ther th an ZAMBIA jewe lry require exchange control approval as well as impo rt or export licenses issued by the Minister of Com- merce; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies and indus t r ial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for r e f i n i ng and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may on ly be provided w i th the permission of the Bank of Zamb ia. Changes during 1975 January 2. The external financing of consumer goods and unc lass if ied goods w i th a repayment period of up to 180 days was generally permitted. External financing for cap i tal goods for the agricultural, industrial, trans- port, and construction sectors could be arranged with the specific approval of the Bank of Zambia. January 16. All unu t i l ized import licenses issued since Janua ry 1, 1974 were withdrawn for re-examina- t ion and reva l ida t ion. The cen tral bank began endors ing import licenses. New licenses were issued restrictively. January 31. Import duties on alcoholic beverages, soft d r ink s, cigarettes, gasoline, and diesel fuel were increased; those on motor vehicles were reduced. January 31. Expatriate fa rme rs not remitting abroad under a personal remittance quota were allowed to trans- fer abroad 10 per cent of the aud i ted net profits af ter t a x a t i on per a n n um. On September 22, it was provided that expatriate farmers could have another 10 per cent of aud i ted net profits a f t er taxa t ion held to their credit every year, and that the entire accumulated amount could be rem i t ted on em ig ra t ion f rom Zamb ia, together w i th the no rmal em ig ra t ion allowance. April 1. The customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem was revoked. April 1. Imports became subject to a sales tax of 25 per cent payable on customs clearance and calculated on the customs va lue of the goods plus 20 per cent of the customs va lue plus the applicable import duty. April 14. The capitalization of free reserves was stopped. Only funds qua l i fy ing under the dividend fo rmu la could be capitalized. June 30. The President announced that imports in 1975 would not be allowed to exceed US$800 million. Impo rt licenses would no longer be issued for luxury goods. July 1. The rem i t tance of rent for any premises in terms of Section 3 7 ( 4) was suspended. July 7. The M in is ter of Commerce announced that the impo rt of goods produced locally would no longer be permitted. The goods concerned were specified on October 2. They included radios, television sets, and finished clothing. August 18. All Rhodesian blocked balances were paid over to the Bank of Zambia. September 16. The tourist travel allowance was with- drawn. However, expatriates wo rk ing on a contract basis could use the ir rem i t tab le funds for holiday travel. The 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA business travel allowance of K 40 a day was limited to 15 days per annum, instead of 21 days previously. September 16. Permission to remit profits and divi- dends was restricted to 10 per cent (previously 30 per cent) of paid-up capital, and provided that this 10 per cent did not exceed 30 per cent (previously 50 per cen t) of the net profit accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies. September 16. The export and import of Zambian currency, previously permitted up to K 10 a traveler, was prohibited. September 16. The restriction l im i t ing the issue of travelers checks to 50 per cent at the point of embarka- tion was withdrawn. Travelers checks could be provided up to the fu ll amount of any allocation of travel exchange. September 16. Hotels and travel agents were prohib- ited f rom buy ing or selling travelers checks and foreign currency notes. September 16. The Bank of Zambia would no longer consider exchange applications for purchases, take- overs, and participation agreements of any kind. All purchases, takeovers, and participation agreements already in force had to be resubmitted to the Bank for review, and no remittance abroad of funds in respect of dividends, consultancy, and management service agreements becoming due under the arrangements already in force would be allowed without specific and prior exchange control approval. September 19. Remittances of leave pay by expa- triates wo rk ing on a contract basis henceforth were included in their personal remittance quota and were reduced to one th i rd of the sum paid. Similar treatment was extended to commuted payments fo rm ing part of the en t i t lemen t. September 22. Authorized dealers were prohibited f rom rem i t t ing funds on account of travel agents or air- line companies in respect of package tours arranged by them for residents. October 2. The M in is ter of Commerce announced that import restrictions would be intensified. Priority would be given to m in ing equipment, medical supplies, raw ma te r ia ls for indus t ry, and general consumer goods. Among the prohibited items were watches, record play- ers, and cosmetics. In add i t ion, importers would not be allowed to bring in goods which were a monopoly of the Na t ional Import and Export Corporation or other specified agencies. October 2. Under the four th quarter import quotas, only one model of ten listed makes of passenger cars could be imported. October 7. Authorized dealers were instructed to d iscon t inue paymen ts for mail order purchases overseas on a c.o.d. basis, except for goods already ordered. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) sterling (c) French franc (d) Australian dollar, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (flM/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions 4 >B 1 1 . Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 1 5. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or U.K. Scheduled Territories 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 A f n a h g i s t n a 3 1<: - - - - A r n e g i t a n | A - A u s r t a i l a 7 A u s i r t a 7 | B a h a m s a | B h a r a i n | B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l g i u m - L e x u m u o b r g | c 1 B o i l v i a | B o t s w a n a | 001ffl A AS «J « n B u r d n u i C a m e r n o o C a d a n a - d * 1 < Is gu "O£o JM 6 A C h i a n , R b u p e i l c o f | C o l o m b i a | A («-io d« & j* o, JU I o" 6fi C OO - 8 5 033 - - I - - For key and footnotes, see page 520. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • — • — • • • • • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • — T L ^ | 3 g § n > 2 o e a o x * j Z . 2 m & S S x 2 . - " a * £ S I ? ^ 1o ^ 5^v <r D0 i f f & ?tpDa o 5 3 "o8 o n8i< _ / «p ' | • | ' ' | ' ' ' 1 • 1 ' 1 ' ' ' ' ' ' 1 • ' 1 1 ! 1 I 1 ' D e n m r a k 1 • | | 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 I I * 1 D o m i n i n a c R e b u p i l c 1 • | | 1 1 • | I I I ' 1 ' 1 I ' ! M I ' E 1 a S l r o d a v 1 1 | 1 I 1 | I I I 1 j l ' ' 1 ' 1 * ' E a u q t r o i a l G u i n a e 1 1 | | I 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 ' 1 I 1 I I ' l ' * ' E t h i p o i a 1 ' | | ' 1 | 1 1 | 1 ' I I I 1 1 | ' ' ' I ' 1 l ' * F i J ' [ ( | l l | l l j 1 I I ! I 1 ! 1 1 J i l l I F n a r e c | | 1 1 | 1 1 | | 1 1 | 1 | 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 | | 1 | G n o b a ' | | ' ' | 1 1 | ' I ' l 1 ' ' ' 1 ' ' ' 1 • 1 ' 1 * ' T h e G a m b i a 1 1 ' ' 1 I ' ' 1 I ' ' ' 1 ' 1 ' ' ' ' 1 * 1 ' 1 ' ' ' 1 ' * G r e m y n a , F e d . R e p . o f 1 1 | 1 | 1 1 | ' 1 1 I ' ' ' 1 I ' ' * ' * ' G e r a d a n 1 ' | ' | ' ' ' 1 I ' ' 1 1 I ' ' ' 1 I ' ' ' * I 9 ' G a u t e m a l a 1 | ' ' 1 ' ' * * * I l l l j l | l | 1 1 1 0 1 ' | * | G a n a y u 1 1 1 ' | ' ' ' ' I l l l j 1 1 1 1 1 1 | ' H a i t i 1 1 ' 1 1 I ' ' I ' 1 l I l l l j 1 1 1 1 1 1 | ' H u d n o a r s 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 | 1 | 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 1 1 I I I 1 H g n o K g n o 1 | 1 I I 1 I 1 ' ' ! ' I I I 1 e c I l d n a l ! ! ! ' | ' i ' | ' ' ' ' 1 I ' ' ! ' ' ' * I * 1 I n o d n s e i a i i ! ! ! l | | l 1 1 1 ' n | i i ' 1 1 I I 1 9 n a r I ' ' 1 I ' 1 • ' I ' ! ' ' ! * ' ' 1 I 1 I 1 0 ! 1 I I 9 1 e r I l d n a 1 1 1 ' | ' | | 1 1 1 I | l l l | 1 ! , ! [ > | • I e a r s I l ' ; l I , ! i I | 1 l l I I 1 ' 1 1 I I 0 1 t I a l > ( i l l 1 l 1 l ! l 1 l ' 1 I 1 I ' ' I 1 9 I y r o v C a o t s 1 | 1 1 | l 1 1 ' ' 1 I ' ' ' 1 I 1 I I 1 | 9 ' a J m a i a c 1 | 1 1 | 1 1 | 1 1 l | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 1 1 | 1 1 I I I | 1 | n a p a J 1 | 1 | 1 | • | 1 1 1 l | l D l 1 | l 1 1 ) ' r o J n a d ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ° • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained within relatively narrow margins3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) sterling (c) French franc (d) Australian dollar, South African rand, or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention arrange- ments) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in («)-(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions4*6 1 1 . Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements with members 13. Bilateral payments arrangements with nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or U.K. Scheduled Territories 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation8 1 •1 D ~ - §o tt - K u w a t i - - L a o P e p o l e ' s m D e . R p e . - L n o n a b e , - L i e b i r a - L i n a y b A r b a R p e . i M a c s a g a d a r - 1 D M y a a l s i a | 3 - 3•a - M u a t i r n a i a - 1 M u a i t i r u s | 8 M o r o c c o 1 - 14> N e h e t l r d n a s | - N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e | N e w Z a e l d n a | - N i a c r a u g a | 1 - 2 - - - For key and footnotes, see page 520. 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • — • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • • • • • • • • S £ J B ; A a * r § i r ^ AV * % p 1f t f t 1 ''111',1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ,1''11'' 1 1 I I1 1 1 '' f t 1 1 '1 1 '! 1 ' ' •» I 1 I Ii1 i i I i i i I i I i i i i • 9 i * • I i i I I ,1 I i I I I ! 1 1 1 '' ',1 ' I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' ' 1 1 1 ' ' ',1 1 ' 1 1 t f 1 1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 ' '' t f 1 i• 1 1 9 9 9 ' 1 1 1 ' 1 ' 1 1 '! 1 ' 1 I i I I I I I I I I I I I ,1 I I I I 1 I i I i i I I I - - I I - I i i 1 ' i I I I i I i i i I I i i I ,1 i• I i I I I IiI I i • f tw I II i I i - I i I I I i I ii I I i « • I i I i i i ,i I' • I I I i I i i i I I ,1 I I i1 i' i1 ,1 ,1 i I i I i I i I i I i i iiI i i a,1 i1' ii• 1 i i ,1 D 1 1 1 a i i i ,i,i i, ,i,1 i iii ii i ii i i i i i i I i i i i i i ' i ,1 1 ,1 ,1 ,1 iii iii i i ,1 'i i i i ii i ihi i , I I i i,1 i' i i i i1i• ,1 i ii i i ! ! ii ,iii j ii ii iiii iii iii1 A i ii i i iiii f t •f t i •f t iiii« ,1f t i i i 1i i •A •f t i •A i 9 9 1 f t ' « t f •"1 f t 1 m 9 9 9 ! •! 1 I t f •! - I I -1 ' ! Aw 9 9 9 1 1 1 i f t 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 ! 0 N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n 7 P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a w R a d n a S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S i e r r a L e n o e S i o p a g n r e o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n . n S L a k n a n a d u S S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e . i r y S n a A r b a R p e . T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o j T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k U a d n a g U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e i U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e i § i i | 1 < < 2 . o * - £ 8 f I ^ ^O * > ^ ^ 5 & C v " f ^ j 3 > ^ C a / t > n e L t r • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Analytical Appendix Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems1 (as at date of country survey)2 1. Ar t ic le V I II status 2 A r t ic le XIV s ta tus 3. Exchange ra te ma in ta ined w i t h in re la t ive ly n a r row m a rg in s3 in terms of: (a) U.S. do l lar (6) s te r l ing (c) French f r anc (d) A u s t r a l i an do l lar, South A f r ican rand, or Span ish peseta (e) a g roup of currencies (und er m u t u al in t e rv en t ion a r range- ments) (/) a composite of currenc ies 4. Exchange rate not m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in relatively na r row margins as in (a)-(f) above 5. Special exchange ra te regime for some or all capital t ransac t ions and /or some or all inv i s ib les 6. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 7. More than one rate for impo r ts 8. More than one rate for exports 9. Res tr ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cu r r ent t ransac t ions4 10. Res t r ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal t ran sac t ion s4-6 1 1 . Prescr ip t ion of currency 12. Bilateral payments arrangements w i th members 13. Bilateral paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th nonmembers 14. Impo rt surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds required 17. Part of French Franc Area or 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 3 "o Iex D _ _ - - - - - - - - - «J 1 D A _ _ - - •T ._ - - - - 15 N £ _ _ - - 0 T - - - - - - - rt O Ic u - - - - - •_ - - - T s* 2 i > _ - - - - - - 0 - - - a a> Q a o & 1a> _ _ - - - *T _•_ - - - - •2 J3V)a3 _ _ - - •T A - 23 _— _— - - - ~ - -^ - .2IS 1 _ - - - - - - ._ - Key 8nd Footnotes • indicates that practice exists; - indicates that practice does not ex is t; and 0 indicates that position is unde term ined. A ind ica tes that the rate for the U.S. dollar is changed at relatively short intervals. D indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily app ly to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1975. Where the date is a d i f fe rent one, this is ind ica ted in a footnote. 3 Margins of approximately 2% per cent either side of parity. 4 Paymen ts to member countries. Restrictions in the form of quan t i ta t ive l im i ts or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 6 Resident-owned fund s. 6 Membership in, or association w i t h, Ang lo - I r ish Free Trade Area, A rab Common Market, Asian Clearing Un ion, Association of South East Asian Na t ions, Aus t ra l ia -New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Caribbean Common Marke t, Cartagena Agreement, Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Un ion, Central Amer ican Common Marke t, Common Organization of A f r ican and Mau r i t ian States, Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance, East African Commun i ty, Economic Commun i ty of West A f r ican States, Euro- pean Economic Commun i ty, European Free Trade Association, La t in American Free Trade Association, League of A rab States, Rand Monetary Area (Botswana, Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaz i land ), Reg ional Cooperation tor J_/evelopment ( I ran, Pak is tan, and Turkey), or West A f r ican Customs Un ion (or West A f r ican Economic Community). 7 Position on Janua ry 1, 1976. 8 The impo rt surcharges do not affect any items bound und er the GATT nor any items negotiated w i th LAFTA coun t r ies. 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • — • • • • • — • • • — — — — — • • — • — — — — — — — — — • — — — • • • • — — — — — — • • • • • • • — — — — • • • — • • — • — — • • — — • • 