 F O U R TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1953 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY F U ND Fourth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1953 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 22, 1953 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ransm it to you a copy of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund's Four th A n n u al Report on Exchange Restrictions wh ich has been prepared in acco rdance w i th the provisions of A r t ic le XIV, Section 4, of the Ar t ic les of Agreement. Part I of this Report gives the results of the 1952 consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement, considers the consultation program for 1953, and summarizes other Fund activity in the field of restrictions. The country surveys in Part II reflect the fac tual situation as conf irmed dur ing the consultations. On beha lf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appre- ciation of the cooperation of the members in the prepara t ion of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ IVAR ROOTH Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I Page 1 1 CHAPTER I. The 1952 Consultations on Exchange Restrictions.... 1. Establishment of the Facts 2. Exchange of Views between Consulting Member Countries and the Fund (a) Views Expressed by Members (b) Views of the Fund 3. Changes in Exchange Systems- 4. Clarification of the Status of Members' Restric- tions 19 5. Assistance Rendered by the Fund 20 6. Development of Closer Contact with Members.... 20 2 3 11 18 CHAPTER II. The Consultation Program for 1953 1. Procedure for the 1953 Consultations 2. Outlook for the Use of Restrictions CHAPTER III. Other Fund Activity in the Field of Restrictions 1. Relations with the CONTRACTING PARTIES to the GATT (a) 1952 GATT Consultations on the Continu- ance of Discrimination (b) 1953 GATT Consultations (c) Other GATT Matters 2. Other Fund Activity Concerning Restrictions A. Introduction PART II 23 23 24 30 30 30 31 32 34 39 B. Developments in Restrictions 40 1. Introduction 40 2. Developments in the Application of Restrictions.. 41 C. Country Surveys Explanatory Note on Terminology Australia Austria 51 51 54 58 vn ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Czechoslovakia Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Iran Iraq.. Italy Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - viii Page 63 73 78 86 89 95 101 105 113 117 121 122 130 132 137 144 147 152 162 172 177 183 186 194 200 204 210 216 220 223 ....:. 236 240 244 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Peru Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South Africa... United Kingdom Uruguay Venezuela Yugoslavia.... Page 256 259 264 268 272 278 282 286 294 297 300 Letter of Managing Director to All Members on Retention Quotas.. 307 APPENDIX SURVEYS OF EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND RESTRICTIONS IN Argentina Indonesia Israel New Zealand Portugal Spain Switzerland 311 317 324 328 331 335 340 IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER I The 1952 Consultations on Exchange Restrictions A substantial part of the Fund's work since March 1952 has been associated with the first series of consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement which, inter alia, provides that "Five years a f ter the da te on wh ich the Fund begins operations, and in each year the rea f te r, any member still re ta in ing any restrictions incon- sistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 4, shall consult the Fund as to their fu r th er retention." As reported in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, consultations were planned with 44 member countries; to these were added one country which subsequently jo ined the Fund. As at Febru- ary 28, 1953, 35 of these consultations had been completed. Various stages in the procedure had been reached with respect to the 10 other consultations, although for various reasons it had not at that time been possible to complete them. The results of the 1952 consultations can readily be grouped under six headings: (1) establishment of and agreement on the relevant fac ts, (2) exchange of views between member countries and the Fund, (3) changes in exchange systems associated with the consultations, (4) c la r i f ica t ion of the status of members' restrictions, (5) assistance rendered by the Fund, and (6) development of closer contact with members. Under these head ings, wh ich bear a close relationship to the procedure established for the 1952 consu l ta t ions ,1 the Fund's report is presented in the present chap te r. 1. Establishment of the Facts The consultations offered an oppor tun i ty to review with member countries their restrictive practices, as well as their need to continue such practices and the steps being taken to enable their gradual elimination. The cooperative attitude of members enabled the Fund to arrive at a common understanding with them on their restrictive practices and related ma t ters. The f a c tu al situation, as confirmed dur ing the consultations, is summa r ized in the coun try surveys in 1 The procedure of consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, as adopted by the Fund's Executive Board on January 24, 1952, was set fo r th in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions and is summa r ized in Chapter II, Section 1, of this Report. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Part II, Section C, of this Report and, to the extent relevant, in Section B, which deals with developments in restrictions. Under Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement, the Fund is con- cerned with restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, with discriminatory currency ar- rangements and multiple currency practices, and with the absence of convertibility of foreign-held balances. The term "exchange restric- tions" may be employed to mean only restrictions on the making of payments and transfers, but it is also frequently convenient to use it in a broader sense to cover the three categories of practices dealt with by Article VIII. In general, in this Report the term "exchange restrictions" is used with this broader meaning. Furthermore, exchange restrictions cannot be realistically discussed apart from other types of impediments to freedom in international economic relations, and restrictions of these different types frequently tend to merge into each other so that it may be difficult in certain cases to categorize a given device precisely. Thus, payments restric- tions may be similar in their effects and even in their form to, or may be combined with, trade restrictions on imports. Similarly, it may be difficult to distinguish between certain multiple currency practices and certain import or export taxes which might be regarded as being of a tariff nature. In general, neither the Fund nor consulting member countries found it either convenient or desirable in the discussions to segregate restrictions of these different types during the consulta- tions. Similarly, except in most cases for the tariff structure, it is not felt appropriate in this Report to attempt to distinguish between restrictions of different types. Unless it is otherwise indicated, there- fore, the term "restrictions" is used to cover impediments other than tariffs imposed by governments or their agents on international eco- nomic activity. 2. Exchange of Views between Consulting Member Countries and the Fund As was to be expected, a large part of the first series of consulta- tions was devoted to an exchange of views between consulting member countries and the Fund. The exchange covered not only the factual situation as regards restrictions, to which reference has been made above, but also the domestic and the international financial position affecting the use of and need for restrictions. Members indicated the purposes and effects of their restrictions, their general attitude toward restrictions, the efforts which they were making to get rid of restric- tions, and their views regarding the conditions for fur ther progress in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 3 their removal. The Fund in turn indicated its views on these matters. In considering this exchange of views in the present section, no attempt is made to be exhaustive, or to cover, even in summary form, every aspect of every consultation. Generalizations, however, are based on facts and judgments received and discussed during the individual consultations. (a) Views Expressed by Members Purposes of Restrictions. Almost all member countries consulting the Fund held that the restrictions which they maintained were neces- sary for balance of payments purposes. W i th in this broad concept, however, the actual purposes varied greatly, reflecting the differences in individual country situations. Most countries felt that there was need to restrain over-all import demand, and frequently to discriminate in the application of their restrictions. The inconvertibility of many currencies, the inadequacy of available reserves, the fear of capital flight, and the persistence of dollar deficits in balances of payments were repeatedly stressed. Some countries also noted various difficulties in achieving and maintaining a unitary rate of exchange which would make possible large-scale removal of restrictions. In certain cases, consulting members indicated that their restrictions, particularly in their discriminatory aspects, were associated with their participation in group arrangements. Some members said that the desire to avoid accumulating inconvertible currencies was an additional reason for the need to discriminate; in some cases, as where it was desired to avoid introducing or intensifying administrative restrictions, such discrimination was achieved by permitting broken cross rates. Some countries indicated that, while using restrictions to cope with balance of payments difficulties, they also tried to apply them in such a manner as to serve other subsidiary purposes. For example, a num- ber of countries with economic development programs argued that, since they could not finance imports of all types, they allocated avail- ab le exchange in such a way as to make sure that the needs of the programs were met. Similar arguments were advanced in defense of exchange control policies designed to help achieve certain social and political objectives, such as those related to distribution of income and maintenance of high levels of employment. Some raw material export- ing countries argued that exchange reserves had to be protected against the contingency that their export proceeds might be reduced in the fu tu re, and that in such an event it would be desirable to have re- sources available to maintain the flow of development goods. Some consulting countries stated that their restrictions served other than balance of payments purposes. Thus, certain specific restrictions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4_ REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS on imports were stated to be used to protect domestic agr icu l ture and i n f a nt industries. Similarly, for many countries an important con- sideration was the ma in tenance of existing export industries selling in so ft currency markets, even though this intensified the use of dis- criminatory import policy and bilateralism. For some countries with multiple exchange rates, their representatives indicated that these practices were substitutes for taxes, subsidies, or tar iffs. The variety of restrictive practices described in the country surveys in Part II of this Report reflects the diversity of purpose —balance of payments and o ther —for wh ich member countries are now employing such practices. This diversity of purpose indicated the difficulty of generalizing about the need for the f u r t h er retention of exchange restrictions; instead, the position and restrictive practices of each country would need to be reviewed ca re fu l ly by the Fund and con- sidered accord ing to the pa r t icu lar circumstances. Effects of Restrictions. In emphasizing their need for restrictions, members indicated, however, an awareness that the use of such prac- tices frequen t ly has undesirable effects in addition to the effects which the country is seeking to achieve. It was apparent that countries are aware that restrictions tend to have an inflationary impact, where they lead to a general reduction of imports or a shift to more expensive soft currency sources of supply. While discrimination may result in a larger volume of trade for the country concerned than would other- wise be possible, the s ign if icance of not buying in the cheapest source of supply was recognized by consulting countries. Similarly, there was wide recognition that, regardless of their purpose, restrictions usually tend to protect domestic industries and to isolate the economy f rom the world market. By increasing prices they reduce the competitive- ness of domestic industry. In a number of cases, however, countries stated that the restrictive system is applied in such a way as to reduce these adverse effects, for example, by the licensing of "essentials", by frequent revisions of restrictions, or by domestic measures regulating or screening the expansion of productive capacity. One country which had recently intensified restrictions showed particular concern lest within a few months restrictions might create serious bottlenecks, and concern that they were increasing the rigidity of the economy which was already too great. Further, countries were aware that capital tends to be attracted into industries which would have no competitive basis if restrictions were removed (and not replaced by other measures such as t a r i f f s ), and some have sought to prevent such developments. In addition to the h a rm ful effects of their own restrictions, the countries concerned took the occasion afforded by the consultations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 5 to point out the adverse e f fec ts wh ich they were experiencing from the restrictions of other countries. Thus, re fe rence was made to the con- sequences of inconver t ib i l i ty and to the impact of 1951-52 deliberal- ization measures of certain EPU countries. As indicated below, atten- tion was also drawn to the practices of creditor countries, pa r t icu la r ly the United States. Efforts by Countries to Remove Conditions Giving Rise to Restric- tions. Consulting countries outlined to the Fund both the effor ts wh ich they were making to get rid of restrictions and the in ternal and external conditions wh ich they saw as necessary if fu r th er progress was to be made. Among the direct e f fo r ts under taken to improve the balance of payments positions were the export drives, wh ich ind ica ted a recog- nition that restrictions can be relaxed and a desired level of trade maintained only if exports are increased, particularly exports wh ich earn hard currencies either directly or in trade with third countries. It was also indicated that such dollar drives are fac i l i ta ted by effor ts, for example, to improve marketing techniques and, to a considerable extent, are dependent upon other measures, such as those aimed at lowering domestic costs or reducing export prices. Some of the condi- tions which countries outlined for greater success in their export drives are considered below. Many countries described their con t inu ing effor ts to expand pro- duction so that they will be able to increase their exports and to reduce their dependence on imports. In some areas, this is associated with development programs to increase export capacity or provide domestic substitutes for imports. Thus, these countries expect the f ru i t ion of their investment programs or their programs for the develop- ment of na tu ral resources to make possible subs tan t ial relaxation of restrictions. It became increasingly apparent in the course of the consultations that many member countries regard the d im inu t ion of inf la t ionary pressures as a very important condition for the removal of restrictions. They recognize that external balance, and par t icu lar ly ba lance with the dollar area, cannot be achieved without the ma in tenance of com- petitive prices for exports, the maintenance of the competitive position of domestic industry sub ject to competition f rom imports, and the avoidance of import pressures resulting f rom income inflation. They indicated that they had been giving increasing attention to the neces- sity for appropriate domestic measures to control inf la t ion and to remove the inflationary causes of ba lance of payments difficulties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS During the consultations, the stabilization policies being pursued were described and their details examined. These policies included the strengthening of the budget position through budgeting for surpluses and the reducing of budget deficits. In some countries, taxation had been increased in order to achieve an improved budget situation. Fur ther, taxes had been employed for specific anti-inflationary pur- poses. Thus, for example, tax concessions had been granted to increase agricultural production, new investment had been taxed, and both consumption and investment had been discouraged by tax measures. At the same time, e f fo r ts had been made to stabilize or to reduce government expenditures. A number of countries described their action to tighten the money and credit markets, e.g., by increasing interest rates. This involved, in some cases, the increase of central bank discount rates and the w i thdrawal of measures to support bond prices. Credit had also been restricted in other ways, such as reducing central bank credit, estab- lishing ceilings on rediscounting, raising the reserve ratios of com- mercial banks, instructing commercial banks to apply a more restric- tive or selective credit policy, and establishing stricter criteria where central control existed over capital issues or over local and pub l ic utility borrowing. Several countries indicated that monetary and fiscal measures had been supported by allied measures in other fields. In order to reduce total demand, there had been some attempts to slow down plans for economic development and other investment activity, particularly where it was controlled by the government. In addition to curtailing government spending, this at times had involved the granting of import permits in such a way as to curtail investment, and similar anti-inflationary efforts. Miscellaneous additional measures which were described included the exercise of allocation powers with respect to such commodities as steel. Conditions for Further Progress. It was apparent during the con- sultations that member countries have made sincere and significant efforts to eliminate the conditions giving rise to their restrictions. It was also apparent, however, that dependence on restrictions is still widespread. In the discussions, members indicated their views on the conditions necessary for fu r ther progress. For some countries, present policies appeared to be such that, bar- ring unforeseen events, they would be able to augment reserves and gradua l ly relax restrictions. There were also cases where it was hoped that the conditions giving rise to various particular devices were tem- porary. Most countries, however, stated that an essential condition ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 7 to be satisfied before they would feel able to make substantial progress in relaxation and ultimately to remove restrictions and to establish convertibility was the overcoming of certain basic difficulties which were causing continuous strain on the balance of payments. Accord- ingly, in the discussions between the Fund and member countries, all aspects of the balance of payments position were considered, including the problem of inflation, the effec ts of rearmament, economic develop- ment, declining export prices, shortages of dollars and other currencies held by trad ing partners, the inadequacy of reserves in relation to current and capital requirements, the existence of large accumulated claims against the country, and the prospects for greater capital inflows. Many countries indicated that anti-inflationary measures must be continued if they were to establish conditions which would enable them to get rid of restrictions. Others recognized that further efforts to curb inflation were needed. Some, however, stressed the problems which may be involved in carry ing out anti-inflationary policies. It was pointed out that there were cases where more rigorous anti-inflationary measures may for the time being not be politically practicable. For example, there is the problem, noted by some countries that have already achieved some measure of success in practically eliminating inflationary pressure, that additional effort in the monetary and fiscal fields might lead to a decline in employment. While a number of countries had made considerable progress toward stabilizing their internal economies, others stated that they had not found it possible to make as much progress. Cases were discussed where budget deficits were increasing, and some countries noted the effects of armament programs on their expenditure. In certain coun- tries where tax revenues consist largely of export and import duties, declines in export prices, and hence in tax revenues, had increased budgetary problems, and budgetary deficits had in some cases emerged where surpluses had existed previously. The tax revenues of some countries were decreased even fu r ther as a result of a reduction in the tax rates on certain exports. With declines in the prices of several export commodities, it was felt necessary to reduce the high tax rates which had been imposed earlier when the prices of these commodities had risen substantially during the post-Korea boom. In some cases, countries noted that the promotion of certain types of investment or the desire to maintain levels of employment had given rise to the continuation of relatively low rates of interest or to the reduction of rates. Despite attempts at credit restriction, the total volume of bank credit in a number of countries had actually expanded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Some countries pointed to the limited amount of production relative to total requirements as a barrier to the removal of restrictions. Allied to the problem of increased production is that of obtaining increased supplies f rom other so ft currency sources. In the situations discussed with certain members, they indicated that the solution of the problem of dollar balance could be fac i l i ta ted if goods substitutable for those being obtained f rom the do l lar area were available f rom other sources at competitive prices. To some extent this substitution had already taken place. In some instances, the coun t ry recognized that the large-scale re- moval of restrictions, inc lud ing the un i f ica t ion of exchange rates, would be v i r tua l ly impossible w i thout the correction of overvalued currencies. Many political, social, and economic fac to rs explain the hesitancy to devalue. Some raw ma te r ial countries, for example, fe lt that, although devaluation might be inev i tab le, it should be delayed until required by the market situation of their chief export produc ts; others wished more stability in their f r ee market rates, or a narrowing in the gaps between the o f f ic ial and f r ee market rates, be fo re an effec t ive par value could be established. Some of the more industrialized countries were concerned with the possible inf la t ionary consequences of devaluation, particularly where the government might be unable to take adequate offsetting measures, while others stressed the impact on their terms of trade. Therefore, the problem of the correction of overvaluation of currencies was said to involve, inter alia, political timing and the achievement and maintenance of domestic stability. For some countries, a change in external circumstances was held to be an impor tant prerequisite for the removal of the ir restrictions. Among the fac to rs to wh ich they pointed were the need for greater stability in world prices of their exports, larger inflows of long-term capital, new commercial arrangements, increased access to markets, and the convertibility of their earnings of foreign exchange. In some f ree market situations involving broken cross rates, some countries fe lt that it was d i f f icu lt if not impossible to maintain orderly cross rates so long as other f r ee markets, also involving broken cross rates, prevailed. Some consulting countries stressed the importance of success in their export drives, especially their dollar drives, if balance of pay- ments difficulties were to be solved. A number also recognized that the chances that effor ts to overcome ba lance of payments difficulties through the expansion of exports would be successful were s ign if ican t ly affec ted by economic conditions and restrictions in other countries. As has been indicated, several countries, par t icu lar ly in Europe, noted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 9 a deterioration in their exports to other soft currency countries which had intensified restrictions in 1951-52. In some cases, however, infla- tionary conditions and consequent high prices in so ft currency markets were seen by countries as tending to make the expansion of exports to dollar markets more d i f f i c u l t; the attraction of higher prices out- side the dollar area was one of the d i f f icu l t ies wh ich had to be over- come in a dollar drive. A particular d i f f icu l ty noted by several consulting countries concerns the problem of selling in the Un i ted States. These countries asserted that U.S. import policy would play a very impo r tant role in a f fec t ing the n a tu re of their u l t ima te policy regard ing restrictions, and that f reer and more stable access to the U.S. market was of m a j or impor- tance in establishing do l lar equ i l ib r ium, and thus in reduc ing dis- cr im ina t ion. Some noted tha t, because of the character of the U.S. marke t, the development of new exports required investment, e.g., in special transpor ta t ion equ ipmen t, and m ight involve large expendi- tures, such as on advertising, which would be under taken only if there was some assurance that the market would remain open. Meanwhile, they held that import duties and other restrictions, including those applied through administrative discretion, made importers reluctant to incur the necessary pre l im inary costs. Additionally, some members expressed the opinion that a change in U.S. commercial policy would, in addition to permitting larger exports, fac i l i ta te the movement of capital from the United States to other countries by providing the conditions under which the investments could be serviced. Several countries whose over-all ex ternal positions were at or near equ i l ibr ium f e lt that the ir tendency to run a direct dollar def ic it was based on s t ruc tu ral fac to rs, and th at the achievement of bilateral ba lance w i th the do l lar area was very d i f f i cu lt or qu i te illogical. Thus, whereas they had been ab le to remove almost all restrictions on cur- rent transactions w i th soft cu r rency countries, they felt that restric- tions on transactions involving ha rd currencies had to be maintained, and that their dollar problems could not be solved solely by their own efforts. A numbe r, the re fo re, f e lt that their dollar restrictions could be removed only when the currencies in which they tend to run sur- pluses had become convertible. Until that happened, dollar discrimi- nation was viewed as inevitable because they did not feel that they could achieve a direct surp lus with the do l lar area. Some coun tr ies emphas ized that the s ign if icance to them of the establishment of the convertibility of other currencies would largely disappear if such es tab l ishment required the maintenance of import restrictions at their present level or their intensification. It was noted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS that, in the case of one ma jor currency, the country concerned did not expect the restoration of the prewar pattern under which a number of countries financed their dollar deficits through earnings of its currency. There was evidence that even countries in a relatively favorable position feared the effects of a relaxation of restrictions which might prove short-lived. Some countries pointed to the possible danger to their balances of payments arising f rom such wide price fluctuations as the increase and subsequent decrease which followed the outbreak of hostilities in Korea. With respect to multiple exchange rates, many countries referred to the need for gradual steps and their inability to make firm commitments about the timing of unification. With respect to retention quotas and similar arrangements for encouraging exports payable in dollars, several countries felt that these could not be elimi- nated until they were eliminated by competitor countries. The ways in which countries expected to react to improvement in their balance of payments situations, when achieved, varied con- siderably. Both the relaxation of restrictions and the building up of exchange reserves were stated as being among the basic policy goals of most countries; there was, however, considerable divergence of opinion about the order of priority of those two goals. Part of the difference was, of course, dependent on the current level of reserves and the level deemed necessary, as well as on what was felt to be the need for allowing increased imports. But differences in policy attitude were also apparent. Frequently it was said that, as conditions im- proved, reserves would first be built up, and that this would be fol- lowed by the relaxation of restrictions, or that there would be parallel relaxation of restrictions and further increase in reserves. On the other hand, some countries held that increased reserves were not essential, and that at their current level they could be used to prevent the intensification of restrictions or to meet normal fluctuations if balance of payments conditions should deteriorate. Others hoped to be able to meet any temporary needs through such sources of exchange as purchases from the Fund. While the greatest stress was laid during the consultations on the necessity for eliminating balance of payments difficulties before restric- tions could be removed, some countries stressed the necessity for find- ing alternatives to perform functions not related to the balance of payments. The alternative measures which countries stated were nec- essary before restrictions could be removed included the introduction of new sources of revenue as an alternative to exchange taxes and the revision of tariffs to restore their revenue-raising or protective capacity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 11 (b) Views of the Fund In the first series of consultations, it was to be expected that much of the emphasis would be placed on confirming the essential facts and on ascertaining the views of member countries as to the reasons why they retained restrictions, the problems which they faced in seeking to eliminate them, and the possible solutions to these problems. Although this was in large measure the case, the Fund, where appro- priate, expressed its views regarding both the immediate action which consulting member countries might take and the more fundamental measures which would help overcome basic difficulties. The Fund's views were expressed both in the decisions reached by the Executive Board at the conclusion of the various consultations and less formally during the prior discussions. Some of these Fund views are indicated in subsequent sections of this chapter. Others are contained in this subsection, a f ter the general observations in the next three paragraphs. In spite of the e f fo r ts being made by consulting member countries to overcome the obstacles to the removal of restrictions, particularly the efforts in the monetary and fiscal fields, it was apparent in the con- sultations that more needed to be done before general convertibility of currencies and the removal of other restrictions could be attained. While consulting countries expressed their desire to rid themselves of restrictions, they nonetheless fe lt that for the present they had to retain their restrictive systems in substantially their existing forms. In many cases, it was apparent that countries probably could have made further progress toward their declared objectives if they did not regard restric- tions as a relatively easy way out of existing difficulties. The Fund recognized that certain countries have successfully com- bated inflation without having attained a position in which they can remove restrictions. In such circumstances, other internal or external difficulties must be overcome, while at the same time monetary sta- bility is maintained. The Fund is also fu l ly aware of the problems which certain countries noted in connection with the strengthening of fundamen tal measures to deal with their balance of payments diffi- culties, such as the possible adverse effects of fiscal measures upon employment. Further, it recognizes that some time must necessarily elapse before these fundamen tal measures become fu l ly effective, and that the persistence of difficulties before all the effects have been realized may appear to call for the continuance of restrictions. Also, for some countries, the level of foreign demand and the amount of capital available from abroad appear to have more influence than domestic measures on balance of payments conditions. This is espe- cially true for countries which are heavily dependent on a few ma jor ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS exports, the prices of which are determined in world markets. Where the d iff icu l t ies of such countries are par t icu lar ly great, an t i- inf la t ionary measures alone would not ensure economic stability. While it is aware of these fac to rs, the Fund retains its previously expressed conviction that importance must continue to be attached to the necessity for fu r ther action in the monetary and fiscal fields, while stressing the importance of appropriate complementary action, espe- cially in the field of commercial policy, by countries with surpluses in their balances of payments. While the situations of d i f fe rent countries vary widely, the consultations brought out the fa i r ly widespread con- tinuance of inflationary pressure or possible fu tu re inf la t ionary pres- sure. Thus, in the consultations, the Fund continued to emphasize the importance of ach iev ing domestic objectives in a fash ion consistent with the achievement of in terna t ional equilibrium. Specific reference was made to monetary and fiscal policies in about two thirds of the decisions of the Executive Board of the Fund at the conclusion of the various consultations. With respect to several coun- tries, the Fund was able to note that such policies had already con- tributed significantly to the elimination of inflationary pressures and the improvement in the ba lance of payments position, or to express satisfaction concerning the successful application of monetary and fiscal measures. But, while sa t isfac tory results could be pointed to in a number of cases, there were others in wh ich it was apparent that there was need for f u r t h er measures. In appropriate cases, therefore, the Fund recommended to countries that fu r th er anti-inflationary measures were necessary. In the discussions, the Fund also pointed to the danger that the policies being pursued by some consulting countries would produce inflationary pressure in the fu tu re, likely to a f f e ct adversely the balance of payments. Additionally, the Fund indicated not only the desirability that corrective policies be undertaken but also, where it was appropriate, indicated the specific n a tu re of the action which it felt desirable. In emphasizing the importance of domestic stability, the Fund also pointed out that the maintenance of restrictions for a considerable period might occasion price increases, and noted the possibility that, because of resultant increases in production costs, a restricting coun- try's products might be priced out of fore ign markets or have diffi- culty in competing with fo re ign goods in the home marke t. In the case of one country, the Fund noted that the practice of allowing compensation transactions and the use by importers of exchange not purchased in the official ma rket seemed to have hindered the estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 13 lishment of a stabilization program which would be necessary to over- come the basic inf la t ionary difficulties fac ing the economy. To another member, the Fund pointed out that restrictions might soon have to be strengthened unless stabilization measures took hold fa ir ly quickly. Where certain countries tended to a l terna te between more extensive use of restrictions and more reliance on corrective monetary and fiscal measures, the Fund made clear the desirability of action of the latter type and ind ica ted that it expected members to take determined and effective measures to deal with the pressure which was being exerted by domestic in f la t iona ry forces. Where a country was experiencing difficulties in exporting without exchange or other subsidies, the Fund discussed whether the inade- quacy of the exchange rate was not partly responsible for the trend toward more restrictiveness and measures such as export subsidies. The Fund had some doubts as to whether the policies which the country was curren t ly pursu ing were adequate. In another case, the Fund noted that an t i- inf la t ionary measures, wh i le not to be underestimated, could not be expected to ensure economic stability. As various corrective measures became effective, however, it would be possible for the country to agree with the Fund on an appropriate par value. Both in its decisions and less fo rma l ly, the Fund expressed to coun- tries its concern with the con t inu ing use of and spread of multiple currency practices and d iscr im ina tory currency arrangements. Thus, to some countries, the Fund emphasized the danger of developing fu r th er multiplicity in the exchange ra te structure, expressed the view that undue rate p ro l i fe ra t ion would h a rm the long-run economic in- terests of the coun try concerned, and discussed the substitution of more fund am en t al measures for the more undes irab le multiple cur- rency and similar practices. The prospects and problems in connec- tion w i th the un i f ica t ion of multiple rate structures were discussed, the steps which might precede such a move considered, and recom- mendations offered by the Fund. The Fund made both specific and general recommendations with respect to various multiple currency practices. Countries with free markets were given the views of the Fund on such matters as the appropriate scope of the markets, the type of transactions which should be allowed in them, and the wisdom of having various mixing rates.2 The Fund ca re fu l ly scru t in ized free markets with broken cross 2 Mixing rates produce effective exchange rates resulting f rom the use of both the free and official markets in d i f fe rent propor t ions in the sale or acquisition of exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rates to determine the need for, effects of, and possible alternatives to, such discriminatory practices. In individual cases, it agreed to their temporary continuation but continued to indicate the desirability of creating the conditions for the maintenance of a unified and nondis- criminatory exchange system. On a somewhat more general level, the Fund expressed the hope to one country that when practicable a way would be found to avoid encumbering the exchange system with taxes for revenue purposes. On the other hand, the Fund welcomed the actions of members which had achieved simplification of their multiple rate structures and a reasonable degree of exchange rate stability. Multiple currency practices and discriminatory currency arrange- ments were discussed with both European and non-European countries. In general, the Fund expressed concern over the spread of multiple currency practices. It thus informed one country in Europe that the final elimination of existing multiple currency practices should con- tinue to remain the aim of the Government, and that the country and the Fund in the meantime would review the situation at frequent intervals. Similarly, the Fund expressed its concern with several aspects of the exchange system of a second European country, in- cluding its multiple currency practices, and stated that it would explore these aspects further with the country, both as to their general effects and their adequacy to meet the needs of effective exchange control and the stabilization program. In the consultations with certain European countries, the Fund also discussed their practices under which part of the exchange earnings or their equivalent are allowed to be retained by exporters, or where rights to import certain commodities are granted in connection with exports, particularly those to the dollar area. Most of these practices have discriminatory currency features; some are clearly multiple cur- rency practices. As these retention quota arrangements and other similar practices existed in a number of countries, and as their exist- ence in one country was frequently associated with their existence elsewhere, the Fund decided to defer its conclusions with respect to such schemes in particular countries until it had examined similar arrangements in most other countries that had them. It was felt that these measures could not be properly judged with respect only to the individual country in which each was applied, but rather that they should be considered as related symptoms of a wider problem, requiring general consideration before individual country decisions could be finalized. The Executive Board, at the time of the 1952 consultations with these countries, did not try to reach conclu- sions on these practices, but decided that they would come up for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 15 further discussion after the wider problem had been analyzed. The Board of Governors of the Fund, at its Seventh Annual Meeting in September 1952 in Mexico City, addressed itself to this wider problem and adopted the following resolution: "Resolved: That the Executive Directors of the Fund shall make a special study of the dollar retention quotas and other similar prac- tices in member countries. In particular this study will take into account the situations which give rise to these practices, their magni- tude in each country, the methods used for their application, their impact on other members of the Fund, and possible alternative measures. The study shall include such conclusions and recom- mendations as may be appropriate." In consultations considered by the Executive Board after the Annual Meeting, certain decisions were again deferred until the general study requested in this resolution had been completed. Thus, the countries for which the Board deferred decisions both before and after the Annual Meeting were Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, and Sweden. Af ter the Mexico City resolution, the Fund considered in detail the problem of retention quotas and similar practices, including those applied to both dollar and non-dollar earnings f rom home-produced exports; also considered were retention quotas applied to transit trade and other special exchange facilities in the absence of which switch transactions could not be carried on. Considerable attention was given to the origin, the functioning, and the techniques, as well as the con- sequences—domestic and international —of the various practices in- volved. The Fund examined these practices from the international point of view as well as from that of the individual countries con- cerned. Among the factors involved in a judgment on retention prac- tices are the significance of the practices for earning specific currencies, the effects on import licensing policy and trade liberalization, the relation of the practices to existing price differentials in hard and soft currency markets prevailing under conditions of inconvertibility, the impact on international trade and payments, the consequences for existing exchange rates, the implications for international monetary cooperation under present conditions, and the appropriateness of other measures leading to currency convertibility. Af ter the Executive Board considered the problem of retention quotas and similar practices, it adopted the following decision, which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS was transmitted to the member coun tr ies with an accompany ing letter wh ich is reproduced as an Appendix to this Repor t. "In concluding consultations on restrictions on current payments and transfers as required under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement, the Fund postponed consideration of retention quotas and similar practices through which some members have sought to improve their earnings of specific currencies. The Fund has now examined these practices more fully than was possible at the consultations referred to above. The Fund has extended this examination to cover the terms of reference of the resolution adopted on September 9, 1952, by the Board of Governors, and has come to the following conclusions: 1. Members should work toward and achieve as soon as feasible the removal of these retention quotas and similar practices, particularly where they lead to abnormal sh if ts in trade wh ich cause unnecessary damage to other countries. Members should endeavor to replace these practices by more appropriate meas- ures leading to currency convertibility. 2. The Fund will enter into consultation with each of the mem- bers concerned with a view to agreeing on a program for the implementation of 1 above, including appropriate attention to timing of any action which may be decided upon. 3. The Fund does not ob ject to those practices which, by their nature, can be regarded as devices designed solely to simplify the administration of off ic ial exchange allocations." The problem of the retention of restrictions maintained for purposes not related to the balance of payments arose in particular with respect to multiple currency practices and discriminatory currency arrange- ments. While the Fund indicated to members the desirability of avoid- ing the use of the exchange system for such purposes as the raising of revenue and the protection of local industry, it recognized the diffi- culties that might be encountered in adopting effective substitute measures immediately. Consequently, in several of its decisions it raised no objection to the continued temporary use of restrictions for purposes other than the protection of the balance of payments, but emphasized the need for the member countries and the Fund to find practical substitutes for these measures. In many of the consultations, the Fund discussed with member countries the problems wh ich they faced in mak ing their currencies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 17 convertible. It recogn ized the fact tha t, for a number of them, the extent to wh ich they could make progress depended, sub ject to certain limitations indicated in the previous subsection, in considerable meas- ure on what was done by their t rad ing partners, with sterling occupy- ing a key position. The Fund, therefore, recorded its view that the interest of all member countries would be much advanced by the convertibility of sterling on a firm basis and the relaxation of United Kingdom restrictions, and welcomed the e f fo r ts being made by the United Kingdom Government to progress towa rd those declared objectives. A l though certain changes in exchange systems wh ich are discussed in the next section of this chap ter were associated with the 1952 con- sultations, for most countries the c ircums tances at that time did not make it appropriate for the Fund to recommend the large-scale removal of restrictions. Where ba lance of payments conditions permitted, how- ever, encouragement was given to the relaxation of restrictions and of d iscr im ina t ion. Thus, the Fund advised one coun try in Europe which was in a relatively favo rab le position that it considered that its existing level of gold and dollar reserves was sufficiently large so that its exchange policy need no longer emphasize to the same degree the desirability of increasing such reserves. In the case of another European coun try, the Fund noted that if there was any fu r th er sub- stantial rise in gold and ha rd currency reserves, part of this increase could be devoted to some relaxation of dollar payments restrictions. The action taken by Belgium and Luxembourg in this respect is described in the next section. While many of the views expressed by the Fund concerned the necessity for f u r t h er action by consu l t ing member countries, the Fund also recognized the e f fo r ts wh i ch coun tr ies had a lready made and were mak ing to achieve the removal of restrictions. Stabilization effor ts to remove the need for restrictions were welcomed in several of the decisions. Similarly, the Fund welcomed the successful e f fo r ts of some countries to relax restrictions or to avoid the f u r t h er spread of multiple rates. In the course of the 1952 consultations, the Fund took the oppor- tunity of stressing that, under Article XIV of the Articles of Agree- ment, exchange restrictions must be regarded as temporary, and that effec t ive action must be taken to restore such equilibrium in a mem- ber's basic ba lance of payments position as will permit the removal of its restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 3. Changes in Exchange Systems The consultations with some countries were concerned not only with the exchange of views noted above but also with the specific relaxation of restrictions on payments, simplification of multiple currency sys- tems, and elimination of discriminatory currency arrangements. In its decision concerning the consultation with Belgium-Luxem- bourg, the Fund noted the current strong balance of payments and reserve position of these countries. Accordingly, the Fund considered that, under existing circumstances, relaxation of exchange restrictions was feasible and requested Belgium and Luxembourg to reconsider the necessity for the level of restrictions affecting dollar imports. The dollar restrictions of Belgium and Luxembourg were also being con- sidered by the CONTRACTING PARTIES to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. At their Seventh Session in October-November 1952, the CONTRACTING PARTIES had before them and made full use of the results of the Fund's consultation with Belgium-Luxembourg, as well as background material prepared in the Fund in connection with its consultation. At that Session, the Belgian delegate stated that his Government had taken the matter of its dollar restrictions under consideration with the desire to meet the opinion expressed by the Fund, and announced that it felt that it was justified in proceeding in its return, albeit cautiously, to a regime of freedom from quantita- tive restrictions. Therefore, it proposed as a first step to institute shortly significant measures of relaxation in its dollar import restric- tions. The Fund has subsequently been advised by the Belgian au- thorities that they have substantially increased the list of items for which import and payment are not restricted on account of the fact that they are payable in dollars, and that they will issue licenses with respect to all other items in as liberal a spirit as possible. During the consultations, certain countries announced the removal or relaxation of restrictive measures which had been under discussion. Finland and Norway informed the Fund that they were removing their retention quota practices. Similarly, Sweden abolished its retention quota on exports of certain Swedish dairy products. It also seems clear that certain countries refra ined from introducing retention quota practices after their consultation discussions with the Fund and pend- ing the Fund's general review of retention quotas and similar arrange- ments, despite the fact that these countries were being adversely af- fected by the use of such practices by other countries. In addition, Belgium and Luxembourg removed or reduced the intensity of a num- ber of discriminatory measures which had been under discussion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 19 In some cases, exchange rate structures have been simplified subse- quent to the consultation discussions. The Fund drew the attention of the Chinese Government to the importance of limiting the number of multiple rates and avoiding any further multiplicity. Subsequently, China (Taiwan) has considerably simplified its exchange rate struc- ture. The Fund expressed its concern with multiple currency practices in Greece, and a process was begun which subsequently culminated in the elimination of multiple currency practices which had existed in that country. 4. Clarification of the Status of Members9 Restrictions The 1952 consultations afforded the opportunity for the clarification of the status of the restrictions of certain countries under the transi- tional provisions of Article XIV. Thus, the Fund's decision stated that Cuba's 2 per cent exchange tax on remittances abroad was not main- tained for balance of payments purposes and, accordingly, was main- tained in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII. The Fund did not object to the temporary continuance of this multiple currency practice. In the case of the Dominican Republic, the Fund noted with satisfaction that there were no exchange restrictions in operation incon- sistent with Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, or 4. Should restrictions in this country become necessary in the fu ture, they would have to be approved by the Fund under Article VIII, because there were no effec- tive restrictions under Article XIV, Section 2, which could be main- tained or adapted to changing circumstances. Similarly, in the decision with respect to Venezuela, it was noted that the country's multiple currency practices were not maintained for balance of payments pur- poses and, accordingly, were maintained in accordance with the pro- visions of Article VIII. While the Fund did not object to the tem- porary continuance of these multiple currency practices, it stated that it would continue in consultation with Venezuela respecting the possi- bility of progress toward a unified rate. During the consultations with certain countries, the Fund indicated that a number of their restrictive practices fell under the definition of multiple currency practices, requiring Fund approval for their intro- duction or modification under its procedures on multiple currency prac- tices. In other cases involving difficult questions of interpretation, ca re ful consideration is being given to the status of the practices involved. During the Fund's general examination of retention quotas and similar practices, the problem arose as to the status of these practices ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS as restrictions under the Fund Agreement. A f ter consideration by the Executive Board, this question was dealt with in the letter of the Managing Director to all members, accompanying the resolution of the Executive Board on retention quotas. It was stated there: "In dealing with retention quotas and similar practices, the Board has not intended to change existing Fund standards and procedures with respect to exchange restrictions, discriminatory currency ar- rangements and multiple currency practices. Specifically, there was no intention to a f f e ct the existing requirements of prior consultation and approval with respect to measures of this character." 5. Assistance Rendered by the Fund The 1952 consultation procedure made provision for discussing with member countries the ways in which the Fund might help them over- come the causes for the retention of their transitional arrangements. It was envisaged that such help might take the fo rm of technical assistance, the use of the Fund's resources, etc. Accordingly, in the course of discussions with some members, these types of possible assistance were explored. The informa t ion obtained facilitated the Fund's appraisal of the problems which concerned members and, more- over, the discussions proved he lp ful in considering the use of the Fund's resources by certain countries. Whenever it was appropriate, the Fund made its technical resources available to assist consulting member countries in meeting their prob- lems. Certain members requested assistance from the Fund staff and technical Fund missions have been sent to several countries in connec- tion with, and subsequent to, their consultations. During the discus- sions, the Fund was able to indicate the assistance which it could give in helping to work out solutions for members' problems. Technical discussions ranged from the importance of improving efficiency in the administration of controls to the problems involved in the formulation of over-all stabilization programs. Similarly, discussions were held on such topics as techniques for the control of capital movements and the structure of free markets* and operations therein. 6. Development of Closer Contact with Members The consultations a f fo rded the opportunity for much closer contact between the Fund and its member countries. In some cases it was the first thorough exchange of views between the Fund and the member concerning its restrictions. The consultations made possible a most useful increase in the Fund's in fo rma t ion and understanding of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1952 CONSULTATIONS ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 21 restrictive systems of a number of its member countries, as well as its unders tand ing of the fac to rs giving rise to restrictions and the policies and possibilities for coping with them. It is hoped that, a f ter the con- sultations, many members will have a clearer understanding of the Fund's approach to their problems and its endeavor to be useful to members in various ways. The range of discussions du r ing the consultations has been indicated elsewhere in this chap ter. The Fund has taken pa r t icu lar satisfaction in the high degree of co l labora t ion of member countries which has attended its e f fo r ts to examine the reasons which governments fe lt necessitated the ma in tenance of the ir exchange restrictions. As re- flected in previous sections, consu l t ing countries discussed domestic matters in fields related to the ma in tenance of exchange restrictions, such as internal mone tary policy, fiscal policy, price controls, ration- ing, investment plans, and deve lopment policy, all of wh ich have their impact on the ba lance of paymen ts position and, consequently, on the need to retain restrictions. In the course of the discussions, member countries pointed out their problems and discussed the ir p lans and attitudes. They were able to indicate the action wh ich they f e lt necessary on an international level, such as the establishment of conver t ib i l i ty by other countries and action by creditor countries. A number of countries stressed the need for coordinated action if restrictions are to be removed, both as regards the general removal of restrictions and the removal of pa r t icu lar devices, such as re ten t ion quo tas and s im i lar practices. The Fund regards the closer con tact w i th members, as well as the in fo rma t ion which it received and the expressions of attitude which it heard du r ing the consultations, as of very great value for its fu tu re work. As a result, it expects to be able to work more effectively with its members in f u t u re consultations and in connection with the various matters which may arise between or independen t ly of consultations. It is to be hoped that in this way real progress can be made toward the achievement of the Fund's objectives. The 1952 consultations, in essence, started a process of ac t iv i t ies and relationships wh ich will extend over a period of years. The p r ima ry aim of the 1952 consulta- tions was to begin this process in a constructive manner designed to help achieve the purposes of the Fund. The experience gained by the Fund du r ing the first series of consulta- tions and f rom its other activities in the field of restrictions indicates the need for con t inuous e f fo r ts to he lp member countries overcome their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS difficulties and adopt the corrective and alternative measures which would enable them to participate in a system of multilateral trade and payments. The emphasis is placed on the finding of practical ways and means of making progress and the need to avoid palliatives and makeshifts which aggravate the existing problems. Each country has the responsibility of doing as much as possible to overcome its own difficulties, to limit its use of restrictive practices, and to avoid action resulting in unwarranted damage to other countries. The international character of its difficulties, however, limits, in varying degrees, the practical alternatives available to any country acting by itself. The need for effective international cooperation and collaboration is patent. Through the process of continuous contact, review, and consultation with its members, the Fund hopes to develop the international ma- chinery which will make possible increasingly effective international collaboration in programs for eliminating exchange restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER II The Consultation Program for 1953 As noted in Chapter I, Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agree- ment requires tha t, a f ter the initial five-year period, consultations on the fu r th er retention of restrictions inconsistent with Article VIII take place in each year. The present chapter is concerned with proce- dure for the 1953 consultations and with the outlook for the use of restrictions. 1. Procedure for the 1953 Consultations The Fund has re-examined the procedure followed in the 1952 con- sultations and the Executive Board has agreed that the procedure which it adopted on January 24, 1952 should, with certain amendments, be accepted as the general framework for the 1953 consultations. The procedure established for the 1952 consultations was described in some detail in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. Basically, it involved: (a) the obtaining of necessary da ta; (b) analysis by the Fund staff of the technical aspects of the restrictive systems and of the under ly ing factors a f fec t ing their fu r th er retention; (c) discussions between the staff and representatives of the countries concerned, in order to consider these analyses and to formu la te recom- mendations for the consideration of the Executive Board; and (d) consideration by the Executive Board of the s taff's recommendations together w i th the underlying analyses, with the views or findings of the Board notified to the member. It was provided that, where appro- priate, the consultations might include also the consideration by the Fund of problems related to the transitional arrangements, such as technical assistance, use of the Fund's resources, etc. In deciding upon a procedure for the 1953 consultations, it was fe lt that the procedure adopted by the Executive Board on January 24, 1952 had worked satisfactorily for the 1952 consultations. It provided for flexible arrangements which could be adapted f rom case to case. The 1952 procedure could therefore also provide an appropriate frame- work for the 1953 series of consultations. However, the he lpful cooper- ation of member countries, particularly in furnishing information dur- ing the 1952 consultations, makes it unnecessary in 1953 to repeat the same prepara tory work by those member countries, and in this respect reduces the work-load for those member countries and the Fund. Thus, with respect to the stages of procedure outlined in the January 24, 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1952 decision of the Board, the stages (a) of ob ta in ing necessary data through the use of an extensive ques t ionna ire and (b) of analysis of the technical aspects should involve relatively little additional work for those members which have supplied the Fund with adequate in fo r- ma t ion. In this way, use can be made of the background material prepared for the 1952 consultations and attention can be concentrated on the impo r tant changes, if any, wh ich may have taken place in each country's position since the last consultation, and on the steps being taken to move toward the e l im ina t ion of restrictions. It is curren t ly planned that the fo r thcom ing consultations will be held w i th the 47 member countries wh ich have not accepted the obliga- tions of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. 2. Outlook for the Use of Restrictions In the coming year the Fund will be concerned with the progress which countries are in f a ct making in adjusting their fundamental position so as to permit the progressive elimination of exchange restric- tions. As regards the exchange systems in effec t, three ma jor aspects will come under consideration. First, there are the problems of restric- tions on payments and the extent to which they can be relaxed or removed. Closely associated with these is the second set of problems relating to the n a tu re and charac ter of the convertibility which it may be possible to achieve in the relatively near fu ture. Third, there are the questions arising f rom the spread of multiple currency practices and disorderly exchange arrangements and concerning the action which should be taken. Closely related will be the Fund's work with coun- tries to find alternatives to restrictions, particularly where these are used for other than ba lance of payments purposes. With respect to restrictions on payments and to the prospects for convertibility, the current situation contains both favorable and un- favorab le elements. On balance, however, it would appear that many countries wish to make more rapid and more specific progress than in the past in relaxing restrictions and moving toward convertibility. Also, the reserve and balance of paymen ts conditions of some countries, although not yet of all, may make possible more progress in the coming year. The slogan "trade not aid" briefly summarizes a new emphasis by the United Kingdom and several European and non-European countries on meeting problems through increased effor ts by themselves and other countries concerned, although this may involve the pursuance of diffi- cult and, at times, unpopu lar domestic policies. The appropriate solu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONSULTATION PROGRAM FOR 1953 25 tion to a payments def ic it is thus seen as lying in the expansion and development of trade with the a t tendant bene f i ts f rom international specialization, not in continuous external assistance or in the extended use of restrictions. There has been a renewed emphasis on the need for larger exports to the United States through adaptations of U.S. com- mercial policy, such as the reduction of ta r i f fs, the liberalization or removal of quotas on imports, and the lessening of administrative controls. Increasing attention has been given by the United Kingdom to the re-establishment of a multilateral trade pattern in which convertible sterling would again play an increasing part. This possibility has been the sub ject of discussion among countries of the Commonwealth, w i th the United States, and w i th the OEEC. Much of the discussion concerning the obstacles to the re laxa t ion of restrictions and the estab- lishment of convertibility seems to have been more practical and pointed than in the past. Members' current discussions run less in terms of whether convertibility ought to be established and more in terms of how and when the specific necessary conditions could be established and the fo rms which convertibility might take. Several countries have broadened the use of f ree exchange markets and others have considered the possibility of fluctuating exchange rates as methods of mak ing f u r t h er progress toward eliminating restrictions. There have also been e f fo r ts by some countries to stimulate greater private capital inflows. To this end, several countries have relaxed restrictions on the repa tr ia t ion of invested fore ign capital. Recent illustrations include Braz i l, Egypt, Ind ia, and the Un i ted Kingdom. Certain d i f f icu lt problems, however, still stand in the way of the removal of restrictions. The d i f f icu l t ies which countries see in the substantial relaxation of restrictions have been described in the pre- vious chapter. Many countries still feel that restrictions represent the currently most feasible way of dea l ing with payments difficulties. Further, some new problems have emerged. In many of the raw material exporting countries, the declines in the prices of ma jor exports have caused increased concern regarding the ba lance of payments situ- ation. Some countries, which have previously had surpluses with the dollar area, are experiencing do l lar deficits. With increased production of cotton in various par ts of the world and the anticipated large U.S. cotton crop this year, there is serious concern that the difficulties of several raw cotton exporting countries may be considerably aggravated. The Fund is aware of these problems, but it is also of the opinion that more rap id progress in the e l im ina t ion of restrictions will be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS possible to the extent that certain key obstacles can be removed. Each of these obstacles is a kind of bottleneck which must be eliminated if progress is to be achieved. They include the pressure of inflationary forces in certain countries, the overvaluation of certain currencies, certain restrictions on imports by countries with surpluses in their balances of payments, the continued inconvertibility of certain major currencies, and the inadequate flow of private capital. Each removal of an obstacle will enable certain forward steps. In particular, the Fund is of the opinion that a point has been reached where the action of surplus countries could well have a decisive effect in permitting further progress by deficit countries toward relaxa- tion of restrictions. There is a definite interrelationship between the actions of every country in the field of payments and trade; restric- tions of any kind in any one country tend to create the need for restrictions in one or several other countries. This is especially so in the case of countries whose share in world trade is large and whose economic position is dominant. Therefore, while the Fund attaches great importance to maximum efforts being made by all countries to facilitate the access of foreign goods and services to their markets, such efforts by surplus countries are particularly important. Obstacles to trade, such as tariffs, cumbersome customs procedures, quotas, and restrictions on carriers, are at a level high enough to justify the most thorough re-examination by all countries concerned. Accordingly, it is a matter of satisfaction that the governments of certain surplus coun- tries, and especially the U.S. Government, are currently engaged in such a re-examination of these aspects of their commercial policies with a view to permitting a freer flow of trade. It is to be noted that, for a number of countries, there have recently been improvements in the balances of payments and reserves. The central gold and dollar reserves of the United Kingdom reached $2.3 billion by the end of April 1953, compared with $1.7 billion at the end of June 1952. There are other countries which have not shown such improvement, but the over-all position is better than it was a year ago. U.S. sources have estimated that, during the last nine months of 1952, other countries as a group were able to increase their holdings of gold and dollar assets by nearly $1.6 billion through their transac- tions with the United States. These gains helped to bring non-U.S. holdings of gold and liquid dollar resources (excluding those of the IBRD and the Fund) to over $20 billion by the end of 1952, almost the same amount as at the end of 1945, the previous peak.1 It is noted, 1 U.S. Department of Commerce, Survey of Current Business. Vol. 33, No. 3, March 1953. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONSULTATION PROGRAM FOR 1953 27 however, that the increase in non-U.S. holdings of gold and dollar assets was substantially less than the amount of U.S. aid and extraor- dinary U.S. military expenditures overseas. It thus appears that there is an increasing interest in relaxing restrictions on payments and moving toward convertibility. The im- provement in the balance of payments positions of certain countries and the strengthening of monetary reserves should fac i l i ta te progress in this direction, especially if domestic efforts continue. As noted in Part II of this Report, there has already been some relaxation of restrictions. The Fund is hopeful that there will be fur ther achieve- ments along these lines and will cooperate with member countries to this end. It is naturally concerned with the nature of this progress as well as with its extent. It will, therefore, continue to give attention to such problems as the patterns according to which the removal of restrictions ought to proceed, as well as to study such matters as the relation between exchange rate policy and the removal of restrictions or the establishment of convertibility. Similarly, the Fund will con- tinue to be concerned with the implications of different approaches to convertibility. In this connection, there arise such matters as whether, in various circumstances, action should be toward convertibility, toward other liberalization in the exchange field, toward liberalization in the trade field, or some combination of these. In particular, serious questions might arise in connection with the establishment of a degree of convertibility if it were accompanied by the substantial tightening of other restrictions. Finally, the Fund is concerned that relaxation will be greatly limited unless fu r ther attention is paid to the funda- mental policies of both deficit and surplus countries which are neces- sary to get rid of restrictions. Among the third set of problems mentioned above, relating to the spread of multiple currency practices and disorderly exchange arrange- ments, there are not only the types of multiple currency practices that have been employed for a number of years by many countries, espe- cially in Latin America, but also rather d ifferent practices which have spread more recently, particularly in Europe. Just as the Fund was established to help achieve, inter alia, the removal of restrictions on current payments and the establishment of convertibility, it was also intended to help in the avoidance of disorderly exchange practices and currency discrimination. The increased use of such practices empha- sizes the danger to the existing system of international monetary cooperation as long as countries find it desirable to make widespread use of restrictive devices and do not establish the convertibility of their currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS A number of mu l t ip le currency practices and discriminatory cur- rency arrangemen ts have arisen recently in Europe. In some member countries these involve the development of f ree markets for particular currencies. Some of these arrangemen ts have been undertaken in order to reduce the accumu la t ion of credits in inconvertible currencies arising from bilateral payments relations. The currencies obtained at a dis- count may be used in d irect trade w i th the partner country or, in some cases, may be used to acquire goods in that country for re-export to third countries. There has been, in some cases, a recent development under which transactions in certain specified currencies have taken place in fu tu res markets instead of in spot markets at par i ty rates. There have also been cases where, to deal w i th certain payments problems, f ree markets have been au thor ized in spec if ied currencies. The use of retention quotas and similar practices has spread f r om country to country, at least pa r t ly as a means of offse t t ing the effec ts of such devices in other countries. Transit trade fac i l i ta ted by reten- tion quotas or special exchange fac i l i t ies has also tended to increase. In addition, there is the risk that retention practices will spread in the f u t u re br ing ing conditions of competitive depreciation, par t icu lar ly if the ba lance of paymen ts or commerc ial positions of certain countries should become more d i f f icu l t. Retention quota practices, as applied at present, are generally asso- ciated with d iscr im ina tory res t r ic t ions on transactions and payments which entail the con t inua t ion of exchange control principles and criteria. The view has been expressed that the special European dollar problem had an impo r tant bea r ing on the problem of retention quotas. Even countries in over-all ba lance con t inue to have serious dollar difficulties because of the inconve r t ib i l i ty of European currencies. For this reason, they seek ways of settling their dollar problem and this is the principle cause of re ten t ion devices. Similarly, it has been stated that some countries have a m a j or interest in transit trade in wh ich they have long specialized. Various countries, on the other hand, have complained about the effects on them of transit t rade made possible by retention quotas or special exchange fac i l i t ies. They have argued that this has tended to divert dollar earnings f rom them, because it involves the sale of com- modities or ig ina t ing in their coun t r ies, to wh ich they would not have agreed if they had recogn ized the goods as be ing switch exports. In add i t ion, there have also been comp la in ts conce rn ing retention quotas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONSULTATION PROGRAM FOR 1953 29 on home-produced goods in other countries, the argument essentially being that such practices involve competitive unde rcu t t ing in dollar ma rke ts th rough selective exchange dep rec ia t ion. As noted in the previous chap te r, the Fund unde r took a special study of retention quotas and other similar practices through which some members have sought to improve their earnings of specific cur- rencies, exchange devices wh ich in general are not desirable. In the coming period, the Fund will, in accordance w i th the Executive Board decision previously cited, enter into consultation w i th each of the members concerned with a view to agreeing on a p rog ram for achieving as soon as feas ib le the removal of retention quo tas and similar prac- tices, pa r t icu la r ly where they lead to abno rmal sh i f ts in trade wh ich cause unnecessary damage to other coun tr ies. However, the Fund feels that their removal could not be ach ieved in accordance w i th general rules, and therefore intends to deal f u r t h er w i th these arrange- ments on a case-by-case basis. Where appropr ia te, the necessary dis- cussions with member countries concerned will be held in conjunction with the 1953 consu l ta t ions program. In conclusion, the Fund feels that it must continue to emphasize the need for f u n d am e n t al corrective measures. The consultations have provided numerous concrete i l lus tra t ions of the general t ru th that over- expansion in the domestic economy and inf la t ion tend to result in overvalued currencies, the deterioration of a coun try's ba lance of pay- men ts position, and an appa rent need for restrictions a f fec t ing inter- na t ional transactions. In addition, they have shown that there is amp le experience to prove that the application of monetary and fiscal policy can produce a strong f avo r ab le impact on a country's payments position. If coun tr ies are to ob ta in the benef i ts of re la t ive freedom f r om restrictions and of conve r t ib i l i ty, the immed ia te task for a num- ber of them is to reduce in f la t iona ry pressures and otherwise to remove the basic causes of their d i f f icu l t ies. In add i t ion, as mentioned earlier, the Fund fee ls that such corrective measures by de f ic it countries could be fu l ly effec t ive only if they are supplemented by adequa te reduction of restrictions and other obstacles to imports in surplus countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAPTER III Other Fund Activity in the Field of Restrictions 1. Relations with the CONTRACTING PARTIES to the GATT (a) 1952 GATT Consultations on the Continuance of Discrimination The requirement for consultation on the continuance of discrimina- tion contained in Article X IV : l (g) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, together with the Fund's role in the 1952 consulta- tions under this requirement, was considered in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. During the Seventh Session of the CONTRACTING PARTIES to the GATT, held in Geneva in October- November 1952, consultations were held with five countries which discriminated under those provisions of the General Agreement which require such consultations. These countries were Ceylon and the United Kingdom (which discriminated under Annex J of the GATT), and Australia, Italy, and the Netherlands (Article XIV: I ( c ) ). In accordance with the procedure adopted for the 1952 consultations under the General Agreement, the Fund supplied the CONTRACTING PARTIES with the results of its consultations with the five countries under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement, together with background material prepared for those consultations. Representatives of the Fund participated in the discussions during the Seventh Session. At the same time, the consultations with New Zealand, Southern Rhodesia, and the Union of South Africa were postponed until a later date, in order that the CONTRACTING PARTIES would have the benefit of the material to be submitted by the Fund. The CONTRACTING PARTIES discussed with consulting governments the ha rm ful incidental economic effects of restrictions and discrimina- tion, and, like the Fund, considered with these countries possible cor- rective measures designed to deal, in a fundamental way, with the persistent exchange difficulties which give rise to the widespread use of restrictions and discrimination. Considerable attention was given to the relationship between internal monetary and fiscal policies and the balance of payments position. The CONTRACTING PARTIES observed that the Fund in its consultations had emphasized the importance of mone- tary and fiscal measures in restoring international equilibrium and had noted with satisfaction the achievements of some governments in this field, while in other cases urging that additional efforts should be made in order to improve upon the results thus far obtained. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER FUND ACTIVITY IN FIELD OF RESTRICTIONS 31 The CONTRACTING PARTIES also expressed the view that discrimina- tory restrictions cannot in themselves be regarded as providing a satis- factory solution to balance of payments difficulties. At most, they may prevent a further deterioration in a country's reserve position (or in the case of a contracting party with very low monetary reserves, permit it to achieve a reasonable rate of increase in its reserves), pending the adoption of fundamen tal corrective action. When main- tained for long periods, their effect on a country's industry and trade may even accentuate the balance of payments difficulties and prolong them.1 (b) 1953 GATT Consultations Like the consultations under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement, the consultations on the continuance of discrimination under GATT Article XIV: l ( g) are required to be held annually. At their Seventh Session, the CONTRACTING PARTIES decided that the pro- cedure for the conduct of these consultations in 1953 would be the same as the 1952 procedure, which was described in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. In continuing the 1952 procedure, the CONTRACTING PARTIES again authorized their Executive Secretary to inform the contracting parties and the Fund of the governments which had initiated consultations and to invite the Fund to consult with the CONTRACTING PARTIES in connection with these consultations under Article XV: 2 of the General Agreement. Further, they considered that these consultations could be more effectively carried out if, before the opening of the Eighth Session which is scheduled for September 17, 1953, the Fund would make available to the CONTRACTING PARTIES the results of its own 1953 consultations with the same governments under Article XIV of the Fund Agreement. The staff of the Fund and the Secretariat of the CONTRACTING PARTIES are in close contact with respect to these con- sultations. The Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions also noted the requirement for consultation with the CONTRACTING PARTIES by coun- tries retaining restrictions under the provisions of Article XI of special exchange agreements which they have entered into with the CONTRACT- ING PARTIES. These special exchange agreements, which are required of contracting parties which are not members of the Fund, require 1 Further views of the CONTRACTING PARTIES on these matters are to be found in their Third Report on the Discriminatory Application of Import Restrictions, Incorporating a Report on the Consultations in 1959 on the Continuance of Dis- crimination, November 195t (Geneva, 1952). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS annual consultations of the same type as those under Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement. At their Seventh Session, the CON- TRACTING PARTIES, a f ter consultation w i th the Fund, agreed to postpone the 1952 consultation w i th the one contracting par ty wh ich had initiated it under Ar t ic le XI of its Special Exchange Agreement. They fu r ther decided to adopt the same procedure as in 1952 in connection with any such consultation that may be initiated by a contracting par ty in 1953. The na tu re of this procedure and the role of the Fund in connection with it was described in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. (c) Other GATT Matters In addition to those described above, there have been a number of other Fund-GATT consultations in the past year, including those with respect to the CONTRACT ING PARTIES' consultations with certain coun- tries on the intensification or modification of their import restrictions, with respect to the do l lar restrictions of Belgium, and with respect to a complaint concerning cer ta in taxes imposed by Greece. On these and other matters, the Fund has supplied in fo rma t ion and, where appropriate, de term ina t ions to the CONTRACTING PARTIES. Article XII: 4 (b) of the General Agreement provides that "The CONTRACTING PARTIES may at any time invite any contracting party which is applying impo rt restrictions under this article [i.e., to safe- guard the ba lance of paymen ts] to enter into . . . consultations with them, and shall inv i te any con t rac t ing par ty substantially in tens ify ing such restrictions to consu lt w i th in th i r ty days." Under these provi- sions, consultations were held du r ing the Seventh Session in October- November 1952 w i th France, P ak i s t an, Aus t ra l ia, Ceylon, and the United K ingdom. W i th the last three countries, the Article X I I : 4 ( b) consultations were he ld concu r ren t ly w i th the consultations under Article X IV : l ( g ). W i th respect to all of these consultations, the CON- TRACTING PARTIES consulted f u l ly with the Fund, and representatives of the Fund pa r t ic ipa ted in the GATT consultations. In each case, the CONTRACT ING PARTIES had be fo re them and made use of back- ground ma te r ial prepared in the Fund in connection with its consulta- tions u n d er A r t i c le XIV of the Fund Agreemen t. They also took into account the results of the Fund's consultations with the countries concerned. Fu r th e r, the CONTRACT ING PARTIES received f rom the Fund de te rm ina t ions in acco rdance with the prov is ion of Article XV:2 that "The CONTRACT ING PARTIES, in reach ing the ir final decision in cases invo lv ing the cr i ter ia set f o r th in pa rag raph 2 (a) of Article XII, shall accept the de te rm ina t ion of the Fund as to what constitutes a serious ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER FUND ACTIVITY IN FIELD OF RESTRICTIONS 33 decline in the contracting party's monetary reserves, a very low level of its monetary reserves or a reasonable rate of increase in its mone- ta ry reserves, and as to the f inanc ial aspects of other matters covered in consultation in such cases." Dur ing their Seventh Session, the CONTRACT ING PARTIES also made arrangemen ts to carry out similar Ar t ic le X I I : 4 ( b) consultations with Braz i l, Chile, F in land, Sweden, New Zea land, Southern Rhodesia, and the Union of South A f r i c a. These consultations have been initiated in accordance w i th the provisions of the General Agreement and will be continued by the CONTRACT ING PARTIES at a la ter date. The Fund has been invited to consult w i th the CONTRACT ING PARTIES in connec- tion w i th these consu l ta t ions and has accepted th at invitation. It was noted in Chap ter I tha t, like the Fund, the CONTRACT ING PARTIES were cons ider ing the res tr ic t ions of Belgium and Luxembourg app ly ing to do l lar imports. In Feb rua ry 1952, the GATT Intersessional Comm i t tee appointed a wo rk ing p a r ty to consider the ma t te r, fo l low- ing a comp la int under A r t ic le XXIII of the Gene ral Agreemen t, but agreed to de lay the ca l l ing of the wo rk ing pa r ty un t il the Fund could make ava i lab le in fo rma t ion on i ts consu l ta t ion w i th Be lg ium under A r t ic le XIV of the Fund Agreemen t. This in fo rm a t ion — the results of the Fund's consu l ta t ion, as we ll as the backg round ma ter ial prepared in the Fund in connection w i th its consultation —was ava i lab le to and was used f u l ly by the CONTRACT ING PARTIES when they considered the Belgian restrictions at the ir Seventh Session. As also noted in Chapter I, the Belgian delegate at that Session announced that his Government in tended to institute certain measures of re laxa t ion in these restric- tions. The delegates of those coun t r ies wh ich had complained be fo re the CONTRACT ING PARTIES about the Be lg ian-Luxembourg restrictions expressed the ir sa t isfac t ion with the Belgian proposals and agreed that no use ful purpose would be served in exploring the problem fu r ther at the Seventh Session, pend ing the announcement of the details of the Belgian proposals. The CONTRACT ING PARTIES also considered at their Seventh Session the comp la int of the Government of France concerning a tax or "con- t r ibu t ion" a f f e c t ing ce r ta in imports wh ich had been imposed by the Government of Greece, and in this connec t ion addressed to the Fund cer ta in questions concern ing this measure. As noted elsewhere in this Report, the Government of Greece, a f t er consultation with the Fund, took action to u n i fy its exchange system, ac t ion wh ich involved the abolition of this tax or "contribution". This appeared to dispose of the comp la int examined at the Seventh Session. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Another matter in which the Fund cooperates with the CONTRACTING PARTIES in the field of restrictions concerns a requirement of the special exchange agreements under which the CONTRACTING PARTIES are required to report annually on the restrictions maintained under the transitional period arrangements of these agreements. To assist the CONTRACTING PARTIES in meeting this requirement, the Fund in 1952 submitted reports on the restrictions maintained by Haiti and Indonesia. The CONTRACTING PARTIES adopted these reports prepared by the Fund as their reports for 1952, as required by the special exchange agreements. They have asked the Fund to furnish the same assistance in 1953 in connection with the preparation of any such report which may be required. Close relations are maintained between the Fund staff and the Secretariat of the CONTRACTING PARTIES, both in connection with such matters as have been discussed in this section and in connection with other matters of mutual interest. The Fund is pleased to be able to record the harmonious and useful relations which have developed between these two bodies whose interests are so closely associated. 2. Other Fund Activity Concerning Restrictions During 1952, as in previous years, the Fund worked directly with several countries especially in regard to their multiple currency prac- tices, sending missions to several countries for the study and discus- sion of their problems. Discussions with some of the countries with respect to changes in multiple currency practices were associated with the 1952 consultations; in a few cases, consultations were timed so as to facilitate discussion of new practices. Throughout 1952 and early in 1953, the Fund reviewed certain specific changes or requests for the continuance of specific measures in the multiple currency practices of Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Finland, Iceland, Paraguay, the Ph i l ipp ine Repub l ic, and Thailand. Missions were sent to several of these countries (Braz i l, Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Paraguay) in connection with the changes being con- sidered. The Fund also sent a fac t - f ind ing mission to Greece in con- nection with the study of measures for the simplification of its multiple rate structure. As mentioned above, Greece subsequently, a f ter consultation with the Fund, made substantial changes in its exchange system. Where the situation was one of frequent change, or where the practices were viewed as of a particularly temporary or emergency nature, the Fund has continued to keep under review changes in the exchange policies and the under ly ing economic and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER FUND ACTIVITY IN FIELD OF RESTRICTIONS 35 financial conditions of several of its member countries with multiple currency practices. The Fund also has con t inued to study and to examine changes in the general economic and financial conditions wh ich underlie the use of restrictions by member countries. The effects and implications of these practices and possible alternative or substitute measures which might reduce reliance on restrictions have been kept under review. In this connection, the Fund has been continuing its study of the various general problems wh ich were noted in Chapter II. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A. Introduction Part II of this Report consists of a general review of developments in restrictions during 1952 and early in 1953 and a series of country surveys outlining the restrictive systems of certain member countries. In addition, country surveys for certain nonmember countries are pre- sented at the end of this Report. As in previous Annual Reports on Exchange Restrictions, the exchange controls and restrictions of Belgium and Luxembourg are surveyed jointly and, with the exception of Hong Kong, separate surveys have not been prepared for the non- metropolitan territories of members of the Fund. The individual country surveys record the position in each country as at December 31, 1952 and give a brief chronological statement of the ma jor changes during that year. In a few cases, where particularly significant developments have already taken place in 1953, suitable references are made in footnotes or in a note at the end of the survey concerned. As mentioned in Part I of this Report, consultations have taken place between the Fund and a number of its members in con- nection with the fulfillment of the requirements of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Fund Agreement. The additional knowledge obtained from these consultations and from the preparatory work in connection therewith has enabled the country surveys to be written in a form which gives somewhat less emphasis to the formal characteristics of the various restrictive systems, and conveys, it is thought, a some- what clearer and more comprehensive picture of the working of the individual exchange systems than has hitherto been possible. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and (other than in a few cases) direct taxes on exports and imports. While, as in previous Reports, the country surveys are based on the formal characteristics of the restrictive systems of member countries, some attempt has been made in this Report to indicate the incidence and severity of the controls and restrictions as evidenced by their admin- istrative application. Moreover, in order to assist in an understanding of the general character of recent developments, a section (Section B) has been included indicating broadly the nature of the changes which have taken place, thus facilitating the consideration of any general trends which may be observed and of developments affecting more than one country. Moreover, Section B carries the review of develop- ments beyond December 31, 1952, the normal cut-off date for the country surveys. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B. Developments in Restrictions I. Introduction It is almost impossible to make any generalization which would have widespread validity and cover developments in exchange con- trols and restrictions th roughout the world dur ing 1952 and the early months of 1953. For a number of countries this was a period of con- solidation, with changes ma in ly in the nature of technical simplifica- tion in the operation of their exchange systems. For other countries it was essentially a period of wa tch ing world developments to see what would take p lace elsewhere be fo re taking any decisive measures to lessen their own exchange restrictions. To some extent, the results of the in tens if ica t ion of trade and exchange restrictions in the second ha lf of 1951, noted in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restric- tions, could be expected to be statistically noticeable in 1952, and figures ava i lab le when th is Report was prepared show that the volume of world trade was sma l ler in 1952 than in 1951. The extent to which this reduction may have been due to intensification of international trade or exchange restrictions —as contrasted with other causes —it is not possible to say. It does, however, appear that, in world-wide terms, there was at least no s ign i f icant relaxation in exchange restrictions du r ing 1952. Some countries did, of course, lessen their restrictions, but others intensified theirs, just as some countries simplified their multiple exchange rate structures and others made them more com- plicated. The intensive competitive b idd ing for raw materials which marked the period immed ia te ly fo l low ing the ou tbreak of hostilities in Korea had a l ready slowed down du r ing 1951, as mentioned in the Third Report, and in 1952 prices for raw materials, with few exceptions, declined to approximately the levels of June 1950. While this un- doubtedly helped the situation of the more industrialized countries, it tended to produce in the p r ima ry produc ing countries a more cautious and restrictive a t t i tude toward the granting of exchange and the lessening of exchange restrictions. In several leading countries, there was a reduc t ion in the amount of exchange made available for imports d i rec t ly arising out of a recognition of adverse balance of payments positions and the pub l ic ly announced desire to correct them. There has been a continued general use of discrimination in the application of restrictions so that paymen ts in ha rd currencies are cur ta i led to a greater extent than are paymen ts in so ft currencies. During the period, no add i t ional currenc ies have become convertible. Mu l t ip le currency practices continued to operate in more than ha lf of the mem- 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 41 her countries surveyed, and, while three or four of these countries may be said to have simplified slightly their mu l t ip le exchange rate struc- tures in the sense of an a r i thme t ical reduction in the number of rates employed, six members found it necessary to elaborate their multiple exchange rate systems. Among the countries expand ing their multiple currency practices, two have introduced add i t ional fluctuating exchange rates by the use of negotiable certificates entitling the holder to obtain exchange in payment for imports not otherwise permissible, and one coun try has reintroduced the me thod of allocating limited quantities of ava i lab le exchange by means of an auction system —a means of exchange distribution not exercised for some years. Much interest has been focused on retention quota arrangements and similar practices in the period under review. These arrangements are usua l ly concentrated in their application on do l lar export receipts and con fer special privileges on those ob ta in ing such means of pay- ment. Du r ing 1952 such arrangemen ts were either introduced or expanded in three countries, but they were abandoned in two others and pa r t ly eliminated in another. Two coun tr ies have introduced "free" exchange markets in wh ich certain segments of their interna- tional trade and payments are to be handled. Exchange taxes have been increased or introduced in three other member countries. Within the f ramewo rk of the European Payments Union, liberalization of trade between countries which are members of EPU has in general been maintained, and in some cases increased, although two of the lead ing par t ic ipan ts were compelled to reduce their l ibera l iza t ion; one of these, however, has since pa r t ia l ly restored its liberalization measures. On the other hand, two EPU countries, to counteract an abno rmal creditor position in the EPU se t t lemen t, continued to resort to blocking pa rt of their residents' export receipts derived f rom t rade w i th other EPU countries. 2. Developments in the Application of Restrictions In Europe, du r ing the period under review, intra-European pay- ments executed th rough the European Payments Union continued to play a dom inant role in in f luenc ing the economic programing of the coun tr ies pa r t ic ipa t ing in the O rgan iza t ion for European Economic Cooperation. The impression is ga ined, however, that crises in the position of ind iv idual members were not so severe in 1952 as they had been in 1950 and 1951, and the monthly settlements continued on a more even basis, a l though the various special restrictive a r rangemen ts previously in t roduced to a d j u st abnormal positions were, in general, ma in ta ined. Be lg ium and Luxembou rg have continued, w i th some ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS modifications, the special arrangements immobilizing a proportion of export proceeds received in EPU currencies or in domestic currency from nonresident accounts relating to non-EPU countries. Arrange- ments of a similar nature continued to operate in Portugal. Both France and the United Kingdom continued, at least in the earlier part of 1952, to run current deficits in EPU settlements and found it neces- sary during 1952 to reduce fur ther the degree of trade liberalization previously adopted. In March 1953, France announced a 10 per cent reduction in imports f rom OEEC countries and the Sterling Area. The United Kingdom, on March 12, 1952, in fulfillment of the policy of reducing its external expenditures announced on January 20, 1952, considerably reduced the list of commodities which could be imported without limitation from most non-dollar countries. These reductions were not, however, as far-reaching as those introduced at the end of 1951 and noted in the Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions (p. 23). Subsequently, import quota figures in respect of the com- modities thus affected were published and applications for individual import licenses invited. For certain of these commodities, increased import quotas have since been announced for the first and second halves of 1953. In March 1953, liberalization measures were partially restored by increasing the range of goods which could be imported without limitation from most non-dollar countries. Another development in the United Kingdom's exchange system was the extension of the special arrangements granting trading facilities to dealers in commodities (already available to the rubber, cocoa, coffee, tin, and grain markets) to dealers in zinc, lead, and raw sugar. These facilities were extended to these markets during 1952 and the first week of 1953, with an indication that similar arrangements might be extended to other commodity markets in the not-too-distant future. These arrangements give a certain degree of facility to the dealers in such markets, in the sense that they are given a general license per- mitting them to pay for goods in certain currencies and to sell them for the same and, in some cases, for other currencies or for sterling f rom another nonresident account. In connection with the United Kingdom's debtor position in EPU, a brief operation in the interests of U.K. merchanting trade was under- taken in August 1952. Under the terms of settlement in the EPU, the United Kingdom was at that time obligated to make payments in gold or U.S. dollars for all of its monthly deficits. Since, therefore, a loss of convertible reserves was to be experienced anyway, the U.K. authorities announced that they would be willing to consider the granting of U.S. dollars to U.K. merchants for the purchase of dollar ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 43 goods for resale to other EPU countries against sterling from an account related to the final importing country. Within about ten days, applications in principle to the order of $350 million were approved, and these applications subsequently resulted in actual business of rather more than $150 million, a figure equivalent to that part of the debtor position in EPU which was recoverable 100 per cent in gold and dollars. The scheme was then suspended for one month and later withdrawn. During the period under review, most EPU countries, with the exception of France and the United Kingdom, were able to increase the allowances of exchange for their residents traveling in other EPU countries. On the other hand, France and the United Kingdom, as part of the measures taken to reverse their debtor positions mentioned above, reduced the amount of exchange made available in this way for tourists. However, more recently, in March 1953, the United Kingdom has increased the tourist exchange allowance. Another development in the period under review was that a certain limited degree of freedom was granted to authorized banks in most Western European countries, permitting them to conduct foreign exchange dealings, in cover of authorized transactions, within exchange rate limits set by their central bank or exchange stabilization fund authorities. These limits do not exceed the 1 per cent either side of parity representing the limits permissible under Article IV, Section 3, of the Fund Agreement. At these limits the central bank or exchange stabilization fund stands ready to deal, but between these limits authorized banks in these countries are free to determine their own rates of exchange. Such covering exchange transactions may be con- cluded only by authorized banks with other authorized banks in the same country or monetary area or in the country of the currency concerned.1 In all such cases, the central authorities supervise the exchange holdings of their authorized banks. Arrangements of this nature were developed in 1952 in Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, and, in some cases, extended to transactions in Swiss francs with authorized banks in Switzerland. Similar arrangements enabling authorized banks to deal in the currencies of these countries were also developed in 1952 in Ceylon, India, and Pakistan. These measures help to f ree the author- 1 Effective May 18, 1953, Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom ex- tended these arrangements for spot transactions so that their authorized banks could conduct arbitrage operations among themselves in the currencies of any of these countries at or between the official rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ized banks f rom the inflexibility of the fixed official rates which had previously been in operation and enable them to re-establish some degree of their prewar experience in fore ign exchange dealings. Among EPU countries, both Belgium-Luxembourg and Italy were able to maintain a high degree of f reedom in impo r ta t ion f rom all sources. Denmark was able to l ibera l ize fu r th er the importation of goods f rom other EPU countries and to increase the amount of foreign exchange gran ted to residents for tourist travel in other EPU countries. In August 1952, Denmark in troduced arrangements by wh ich exporters of commodities receiving payment in U.S. or Canad ian dollars could obtain, against surrender of those do l lar proceeds, in addition to Danish kroner at the official rate, negotiable import r igh ts equivalent to 10 per cent of their export proceeds. These rights enabled other- wise restricted goods to be imported f rom EPU countries. The Federal Republic of Germany was able dur ing 1952 to expand the liberaliza- tion of imports f rom EPU countries. Germany also continued the special arrangement of import rights in t roduced effec t ive April 1, 1952 ( f or description, see Third Annual Report on Exchange Restric- tions, p. 22 ), and on July 30, 1952 considerably expanded the list of commodities which could be imported f r om the dollar area under these special arrangements. On September 4, 1952, Germany permitted exporters to sell their "Brazilian accoun t ing dollars" at f ree market rates to authorized importers of goods and services f rom Braz il to the extent of 80 per cent of their payments. Greece, in October 1952, abolished a system of compensation import rights and substituted a system of export subsidies and exchange taxes on imports. In April 1953, in association w i th a revision in the official rate of the drachma, existing subsidies and taxes were abolished, and a unitary exchange rate system was established. Austria, in May 1953, also established a un i ta ry exchange rate system applicable to all transactions, and agreed with the Fund on an initial par value for the schilling. Prior to this, Austria had ma in ta ined separate exchange rate levels for trade and nontrade transactions. Iceland, which reached a d i f f icu lt position in the EPU settlement, found it necessary on August 29, 1952 to place severe restrictions on the import of certain goods f rom other EPU countries, although these items could still be imported f rom those countries with wh ich Iceland has strictly bilateral trade and payments arrangements. In the Netherlands, it was also found possible du r ing 1952 to in- crease the degree of liberalization applied to imports f rom other EPU countries and to increase the amount of exchange granted for tourist travel and other invisible payments in those and some other countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 45 The Netherlands, du r ing this period, also maintained its retention quota arrangements with the objective of encourag ing its export trade. In add i t ion, the Ne ther lands, in order to overcome fore ign exchange d iff icu l t ies in t rade with A rgen t ina, B raz i l, and Egypt, made special arrangements in regard to settlements in respect of those countries. Both Norway and Sweden were also able to extend the degree of l ibera l iza t ion applied to imports f rom other EPU countries. Norway was able to increase the amount of fo re ign exchange annua l ly allocated to tourists trave l ing to other EPU coun tr ies. Du r ing 1952, Norway canceled the arrangement under wh ich provision was made for ex- porters to receive a license for do l l ar impor ts of raw materials and equipment needed for the ir own business up to 10 per cent of their dollar export proceeds su r rende red. Sweden, e f fec t ive September 30, 1952, abolished a re ten t ion quo ta a r rangement applicable to exporters of da iry p roduc ts to do l lar countries by wh ich the dollar proceeds of such exports could be sold through au tho r ized banks at uno f f ic ial rates to Swedish impor ters of essential goods. Switzerland, dur ing the course of 1952, f u r t h er extended its control over exports. Finland, wh ich opera ted a retention quo ta a r rangement du r ing 1952 by granting special import rights to certain exporters, canceled this arrangement at the end of the year. Dur ing that same year, in connection with the in f lux of visitors to the Olympic Games, the Finnish authorities per- m i t ted their au tho r ized banks to operate a system establishing sepa- ra te and higher rates for travelers' exchange applicable both to fo r- eigners visiting the coun t ry and to Finnish residents going abroad. E f fec t ive February 1, 1953, however, the general scope of these arrange- ments was cu r ta i led, and the amoun ts of local currency which could be taken in or out of Finland were cons ide rab ly reduced. Portugal comp le te ly l ibera l ized impor ts f rom o ther EPU countries at the beg inn ing of 1952, but towa rd the m idd le of the year reduced this l ibe ra l iza t ion to 75 per cent of 1948 import values. Portugal also in troduced an a r rangement somewhat s im i lar to that introduced in Belgium-Luxembourg in September 1951, by which the proceeds of certain exports to other EPU countries were blocked to the extent of 30 per cent, pending a decline in Portugal's credit position in the EPU settlement below a specified level. Several changes took p lace in Yugoslavia dur ing the period under review. In the first pa rt of 1952, a system of export and import sur- charges and export subsidies was g radua l ly introduced. Effective Ju ly 1, 1952, rad ical changes were made in the exchange system: import and export l icens ing was fo rma l ly abolished although the importation of specific items could be (and was la te r) proh ib i ted; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS institutions authorized to conduct fore ign trade transactions were permitted to retain 45 per cent of their exchange receipts and to use them for specified payments or for sale in the newly established fore ign exchange market, access to which was limited to the National Bank and other authorized institutions. Later, the system of export and import surcharges and export subsidies was fu r th er expanded by increas ing the number of coe f f ic ien ts used as mu l t ip ly ing factors to m o d i fy the o f f ic ial rate. In October 1952, a severe drought having made the exchange position somewhat d i f f icu l t, the importation of approximately 100 items was proh ib i ted for a six-month period. The percentage of retained exchange (see above) was decreased f rom 45 to 20 per cent of export proceeds. Du r ing the period under review there has been considerable interest in the Sterling Area and the conver t ib i l i ty of sterling. The statement made at the close of the Commonwealth Finance Ministers Con- ference in Janua ry 1952, wh ich was summa r ized in the Third Annual Repo rt on Exchange Restrictions (pp. 23-24), showed the intention of the coun tr ies concerned to b r ing the Sterling Area as a whole "into ba lance w i th the rest of the wo r ld, inc lud ing at least a balance w i th the do l lar area". From the figures ava i lab le at the time this Report was w r i t ten, it wou ld appear that these objectives have been attained. A Commonwea l th Economic Conference was held in London in De- cember 1952, and at its conclusion a published statement, issued on December 13, stated that the fo l low ing principles had been agreed: (1) appropr ia te in te rnal economic policies designed to curb inflation and rises in the cost of l iv ing; (2) encouragement of sound economic deve lopmen t; and (3) the extension over the widest possible area of a mu l t i la te ral t rade and paymen ts system. In connection with this last p r inc ip le, the Con fe rence agreed on the importance of sterling resuming its role as a med ium of world t rade and exchange. The statement mentioned that an integral part of any multilateral system would be the restoration of the convertibility of sterling, to be reached only by progressive stages. The achievement of this convertibility would depend upon these conditions: (1) continuing success of the action of sterling Commonwealth countries; (2) the prospect that t rad ing nations would adopt trade policies conducive to the expansion of world t rade; and (3) the ava i lab i l i ty of adequate financial support through the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund or otherwise. It was empha- sized that the Commonwealth countries in pursuance of these objec- tives wou ld seek cooperation w i th other countries and organizations, and in th is connection i n f o rm al discussions on economic and financial conditions were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1953 between ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 47 representatives of the United States and of the United Kingdom. Discussions with European countries also took place in Paris in March. Following the agreement reached at the Commonwealth Finance Ministers Conference of January 1952, Australia, Ceylon, New Zea- land, Pakistan, and the Union of South Africa have all extended the effect of their import licensing to make it restrictive on imports from all sources. As restrictions were already severe against hard currency imports, this meant mainly an intensification of restrictions against soft currency imports. In addition, these countries also reduced the amount of foreign exchange granted to their residents for tourist travel in other countries. Australia has, however, announced that, effective April 1, 1953, there will be some degree of relaxation for imports originating outside the dollar area and Japan. There have also been certain exchange developments in the coun- tries of the Middle and Far East, but it is not possible to discern any general tendency among them. Egypt, which had certain balance of payments difficulties during 1952, found it necessary during the year gradually to extend individual import licensing to all imports. A tax of 10 per cent on funds transferred abroad in payment of specified invisible transactions was also introduced in the middle of the year. In December 1952 and January 1953, the use of special accounts held by nonresidents in Egyptian currency for payments for Egyptian exports and receipts from Egyptian imports was considerably ex- tended, so that Egypt's foreign trade is now increasingly being financed through such arrangements. Ethiopia has enjoyed more favorable balance of payments conditions and found it possible during 1952 to increase the proportion of exchange licenses permitting pay- ments in U.S. dollars. Israel, which had introduced on February 14, 1952 a multiple rate structure consisting of three rates applicable to specified categories of transactions, continued this arrangement but later found it appropriate to move purchases of exchange in respect of most export proceeds, and from tourists and diplomats, from the inter- mediate rate to the most advantageous rate. During the year, Iran discontinued the sale of exchange certificates at fixed rates by the central bank. Exports and permissible imports were each classified into two categories. Exporters of Category 1 exports were granted exchange certificates which could be sold in a free market to importers of Category 1 imports; similarly, exporters of Category 2 exports received exchange certificates which could be transferred in a second free market to importers of Category 1 or 2 imports. On November 11, 1952, it was announced that the exchange certificates would be issued only to exporters in respect of 95 per cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of their surrendered export proceeds, thus in troduc ing two "mixing" rates on the buy ing side of the I ran ian mu l t ip le exchange ra te struc- ture. The exchange ra te for the purchase of U.S. do l lar invisibles and capital earnings was raised f rom around the par va lue to a level more favo rab le to the seller. Lebanon eliminated its rema in ing "mixing" rate, so that, apart f rom a few government payments e f fec ted at the o f f ic ial rate, all exchange transactions in Lebanon can be conduc ted w i thout control or restric- tion in a fluctuating f ree market. By contrast, Syria in April 1952 in troduced new legislation to make its existing exchange control system more e f fec t ive by requ ir ing Syrian res iden ts to pass all their exchange transac t ions th rough au tho r ized banks in Syria, the exchange rate, however, being le ft open to fluctuating ma rket forces. The Syrian and Lebanese pounds wh ich had been in close re la t ionsh ip for some time developed an increased divergence towa rd the end of the year, and in the opening months of 1953 the Syrian currency was at about a 3 per cent discount on Lebanese currency. Indonesia has continued its multiple exchange rate structure, em- ploying dollar export certificates. The premium for dollar export cer- tificates, wh ich is fixed by the authorities, has remained at the low figure of 0.25 rup iah per U.S. do l lar (app rox ima te ly 2 per cent) since August 26, 1952. The "inducement" certificates were replaced by "TPI" certificates as f rom J anu a ry 23, 1953; in August 1952 and Janua ry 1953, the categories of merchand ise to wh ich the certificates apply were increased. Thailand has taken measures to introduce limited controls on exchange transactions. Certain remittances now require off ic ial approval and all export proceeds must be repatriated through recognized channels. On September 15, 1952, Thailand abolished one of the "mixing" rates (on the buy ing side) in its mul- tiple exchange rate structure. China (Ta iwan) in January 1953 also found it possible to abolish one of its "mixing" rates and to move most exchange transactions to an existing higher rate which had previously been used only for exceptional receipts and on the outgoing side for less essential payments. The Philippine Republic found it necessary in 1952 to reduce the amount of exchange made available for imports and for foreign travel. In July 1952, a new law extended through June 30, 1953 the existing 17 per cent tax on sales of foreign exchange for most items; and in June 1953, the tax was extended to June 30, 1954. In Latin America also, no general tendencies in the field of exchange restrictions have been noticed, a l though there have been distinctive ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIONS 49 changes in ind iv idual countries. A rgen t ina du r ing 1952 added two additional buy ing rates by the in t roduc t ion of new "mixing" rates. In Bolivia, the Central Bank began quoting in August 1952 a "free" market rate for payments and receipts in respect of invisibles and nonregistered capital, making an additional rate in the multiple ex- change rate structure .2 In December of that year, a "gold certificate" arrangement was established by wh ich the Banco Minero issued a dollar certificate in respect of its purchases f rom the local gold pro- ducers which they could f ree ly sell to importers to be used in payment for specified nonessential imports, the Central Bank redeeming the cer t if ica te by making the exchange remittance. The Central Bank ceased quoting a "free" market rate in February 1953. In Braz i l, where the tax on fo re ign remittances was increased f rom 5 to 8 per cent at the beginning of 1952, much consideration was given dur ing the year to a bill designed to establish a f ree market for cer- tain transactions. This bill was finally signed on Janua ry 7, 1953, and the free market was legally established on February 21, 1953, with the approval of the Fund. The market opened at a rate of 38-40 cruzeiros to the U.S. dollar. In addition to establishing a f ree market, the law exempts exchange transactions in that market f rom exchange licensing and from the 8 per cent tax on fore ign remittances mentioned above. The new law also enables the authorities to determine whe ther all or part of the proceeds of certain exports w i th in specified limita- tions must be surrendered or may be sold in the free market. The Fund has stressed that effec t ive monetary and credit policies will be indispensable to the success of the new exchange system, and it is understood that Brazil will remain in close consultation with the Fund. At the time this Report was written, three lists had been issued of commodities sub ject to d i f fe rent percentage surrender requirements, thus adding three new "mixing" rates to Brazil's multiple exchange rate structure. The considerable delays in providing exchange in satis- fac t ion of ou ts tand ing exchange licenses continued during the period under review. The new law mentioned above provides for closer coor- dination between the import and exchange licensing authorities with a view to establishing a system of prompt payments on foreign claims. In Colombia, in August 1952, export certificates were introduced by means of which exporters of specified minor products acquired the right to import commodities otherwise prohibited and were able to sell these rights to others. On November 7, 1952, a decree was issued 2 In May 1953, however, the exchange system in Bolivia was simplified—see footnote 1 to the country survey on Bolivia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS changing the procedure for collecting an existing 3 per cent stamp tax. This tax was previously collected by the banks at the time the foreign remittance was effec ted, but under this decree the tax, when applied in respect of imports, has to be paid at the time import regis- tration is effected. The tax continues to be collectible by the banks in other cases. Costa Rica introduced a new "mixing" rate applicable to the exchange proceeds of certain exports. Under a law promulgated in June 1952, the Central Bank was authorized to grant a special temporary au thor iza t ion in this respect and has exercised this power in relation to certain commodities. Ecuador, wh ich in February 1952 had simplified its multiple exchange rate structure to two levels, reintroduced in April a "mixing" rate in respect of the exchange pro- ceeds derived f rom the export of so-called Panama hats. Paraguay made numerous alterations in its exchange rate structure by changing the exchange rates and the commodities to which they apply, and by introducing surcharges and subsidies on certain imports. In addition, export taxes and subsidies were applied to certain export proceeds. At the end of 1952, the arrangements for the 1953 exchange program were announced in Paraguay. The changes included reclassi- fication of imports and the creation of a fou r th category of nonessential imports to which exchange would be allocated by means of an auction system, a device which had not been used in Paraguay in recent years. Exchange subsidies for imports were eliminated, the maximum per- missible subsidy for minor exports was increased, and control of the surrender of export proceeds was revised and the scope of the controlled f ree ma rket was expanded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C. Country Surveys Explanatory Note on Terminology In the descriptions of exchange controls and restrictions in this section, a standardized framework has been employed as far as practicable. For this purpose, each system is described under the following headings (where app l icab le ): Origin and Essential Features, Exchange Rate System, Exchange Control Territory, Administration of Control, Prescription of Currency, Nonresident Accounts, Imports and Import Payments, Payments for Invisibles, Exports and Export Proceeds, Proceeds f rom Invisibles, Capital, Banknotes, Table of Exchange Rates, and Changes during 1952. In some of the country surveys, the sections on Exchange Control Territory, Nonresident Accounts, Banknotes, and Table of Exchange Rates have been omitted where they either do not apply or appear to have no particular sig- n i f icance to the coun try concerned. The present arrangement, which d iffers from those in previous years' Reports, has been adopted with a view toward facilitating the understanding of the various exchange systems. As in previous years, an a t tempt has been made to employ as far as possible a consistent terminology for describing similar docu- ments or practices, but this has not been pressed beyond the point where the use of an expression would conflict with the term used by the country concerned, so that expressions such as "exchange license" and "import license" used in these country surveys do not reflect any interpretation of the actual func t ion of such documents. The word "license" is, however, used to cover all granting of permits or per- missions, either general or ind iv idua l, whether or not they are con- veyed in any actual document or merely consist in conforming to certain requirements under the supervision of some authority, in cir- cumstances where, w i thout that conform i ty, the transaction or pay- ment could not take place. The subject matter included under each of the above headings is indicated below. Under Origin and Essential Features, a brief survey of developments in each country's system and a short summary of the main features are provided. The summary is, however, not to be taken as indicating that the Fund necessarily regards all the features of the system as desirable or has given specific approval to them, or as implying that all the practices described are necessarily under the Fund's jurisdiction. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and /or the off ic ial rates are given, usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together w i th a reference to any other rates which may be essential parts of the country's exchange rate system. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS In the ma jo r i ty of cases where there is a multiple exchange rate system, fu r ther details are given in the later section, Table of Exchange Rates (see be low ). All rates quoted are those effec t ive as at Decem- ber 31, 1952, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of a given system of exchange controls and restrictions is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories and when a resident of one coun try is treated as a resident of another country for the purposes of exchange control. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements affec t ing the selec- tion of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. It will be seen that the degree to which these are significant and effective varies considerably with d ifferent countries. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries or mone tary areas, the terms of these agreements will usually lead to prescription of currency arrangements being applied to specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. For a country whose currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its cur- rency where it is derived f rom current international transactions and is held by nonresidents, whose accounts in that currency are designated geographically according to the country or monetary area of the account holder. Payments to and f rom such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in the currency of the coun- try or monetary area of the nonresident whose account is concerned. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country concerned regards the accounts in its currency of persons not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such persons' accounts. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are briefly described, and details are given of the additional require- ments attached to the mak ing of payments in respect of imports. The term "under open general license" which is applied in some countries is to be understood to indicate arrangemen ts whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt f rom a restrictive appli- cation of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license" ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRY SURVEYS 53 which may, accord ing to circumstances, be either free ly given or restricted in its issue. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad in respect of invisible transac t ions is briefly de- scribed. In most cases, the limitations placed on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes are given. Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements attaching to the proceeds derived from exports f rom the country concerned. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to ind ica te that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his fore ign exchange against local currency, usua l ly at the off ic ial rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer au tho r ized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requ irement that the proceeds be sold in a f ree market, but in such cases the expression "surrendered" is not used. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions attaching to ex- change derived f rom invisible transac t ions are given. For some coun- tries, the l im i ta t ions placed on the import of fore ign and domestic bankno tes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations a t tach ing to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where the special arrangements attaching to fo re ign cap i tal also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with under this head ing ra ther than under the previous heading, Proceeds from Invisibles. Under Banknotes, a head ing included in only a few of the country surveys, special arrangemen ts concerning the negotiation of foreign bankno tes w i th in the country are described briefly. Under Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for most coun- tries having a mu l t ip le exchange rate s truc ture, the exchange rates e f fec t ive as at December 31, 1952 are given. For convenience, most of these tables are given in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effec t ive "mixing" rates arising f rom the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at d ifferent rates, which occurs in those countries emp loy ing "mixing" systems. Under Changes during 1952, the more s ign if icant changes taking place in a country's restrictive system du r ing 1952 are presented in chrono log ical order. Where it is known that some s ign if icant event has taken place since then, th is is ind ica ted either at the end of the section or in a foo tno te against the item a f fec ted by the change. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Origin and Essential Features Australia introduced import and exchange controls late in 1939. At the outset, the controls applied restrictively to imports from and pay- ments to all countries, although with discrimination in favor of trans- actions with other parts of the Sterling Area. In 1946-47, imports from Sterling Area countries were exempted generally f rom import licensing. In March 1952, import licensing was again extended to cover imports f rom all countries. The Australian system of exchange control in respect of procedure, currency prescription, and policy appli- cable to non-Sterling Area transactions is essentially of the pattern of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area controls. All export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies and surrendered at official rates within a specified time, and all payments in foreign currency ( inc lud ing sterling) must be made through authorized banks in prescribed currencies with general or specific approval. Exchange Rate System The exchange rate system is un i tary, based on the par value of Australian Pound 1 = US$2.24. Official rates are fixed for transac- tions in pounds sterling: £A 125 buying, £A 125/10/- selling, per £100. The authorized banks quote their own rates for the U.S. dollar, based on market quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control The Commonwealth Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on beha lf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the nine private trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and Customs in collaboration with the Treasury and the Commonwealth Bank on foreign currency aspects. Prescription of Currency The Commonwealth Bank, by notices in the Commonwealth Gazette, prescribes the types of currency which may be accepted for exports to each foreign country or monetary area. Conformity to this prescrip- tion is one of the conditions on which the Department of Trade and 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 55 Customs issues the export license. For payments for imports and other outward payments, the same type of currency prescription operates through central bank directions to the authorized banks. The form of prescription in both cases follows closely that of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or a Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in the currency of the country of origin of the goods, in sterling through a sterling account appropriate for that country, or in Australian currency through an account with a bank in Australia of a bank in the country of origin of the goods. For exports, sterling or Australian currency through appropriate accounts (as for imports) is always acceptable, but provisions regarding the acceptance of foreign currencies vary. Nonresident Accounts There is no formal classification, as in the United Kingdom, of the accounts of nonresidents—i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area —because of the relatively few accounts involved, but the same prin- ciples as in the United Kingdom apply. Transfers are freely allowed (administratively on application) between the accounts of residents of the same country or monetary area. All credits to nonresident accounts are sub ject to approval and are approved in the same cir- cumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a t rans fer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Payment in sterling to an appropriate nonresident account in the United Kingdom is always an alternative method of payment open to a payee, and this would, in terms of the United Kingdom's payments arrangements, ensure the payee's ability to acquire his own currency if desired. Where, however, amounts are le ft indefinitely in Australia on nonresident account, they may be regarded as capital if transfer should be sought. Imports and Import Payments Apart f rom minor exemptions, the importation of all goods is pro- hibited except under import license issued by the Department of Trade and Customs. All import licenses are specific in respect of country of origin of the goods. Import licenses issued for imports from the dollar area and Japan are confined to items regarded as essential, especially raw materials, industrial supplies, and capital equipment. Licenses for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS imports f rom all other countries are issued ma in ly on percentage quotas based on imports in the f iscal year 1950-51.* In respect of imports sub ject to license, the provision of foreign exchange or the crediting of Aus tra l ian currency to a nonresident account is au toma t ica l ly permitted fo l low ing the issue of the import license, provided the prescription of currency requirements (see above) are observed. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts in respect of invisibles come und er exchange control, but approval is f ree ly given for most items and the control operates largely to prevent unau tho r ized capital t rans fe rs. Restrictions apply, however, to allocations of fo re ign exchange for travel expenditure, to earnings of U.S. film companies and of visiting U.S. entertainers, and to dollar expenditure for such items as advertising, insurance of local risks, and newspaper representation ab road. For royalties and service charges due in dollars, approval for t ran s fer is given provided the contract giving rise to the commitment was entered into pr ior to con- trol or subsequently with exchange con trol permission. Limits are placed on noncon t rac tual transfers, such as donations, remittances for fam i ly maintenance, and movements of em igran ts' funds. The treat- ment of such applications is, however, relatively liberal, and any limitations may be regarded as comp lemen tary to the control over capital movements. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports (w i th m inor exceptions) are sub ject to license issued by the Department of Trade and Customs. A condition of these licenses is that fu ll proceeds must be received in a currency and within a period approved by the Commonwealth Bank. To assist supervision, there is a fu r ther condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Common- wealth Bank or a private trad ing bank acting as its agent. Unless payment is to be received in a currency and within a period corre- sponding to those stipulated by the Commonwealth Bank, the ex- porter's bank will not clear the documen ts without specific exchange control approval. 1 Modifications in the severity of these import restrictions occurred in the second half of 1952 and early 1953, and some substantial relaxation became effective as f rom April 1, 1953. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 57 Proceeds from Invisibles For U.S. do l lar acc rua ls f r om invisible items, o f fe rs to sell must be made w i th in spec if ied periods. Currency holdings and securities in foreign currencies (except Sterling Area currencies) must be reported and may be disposed of only w i th permission, but their surrender is not compulsory, Capital A ll t ran s fe rs of cap i tal f rom Aus t ra l ia require specific exchange control app rova l. App roval is f r e e ly g ran ted for the repa t r ia t ion of non specu la t ive f u n ds owned by S te r l ing Area residents. However, no advance c omm i tm e n ts are g iven in such cases. T ran s fe rs of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area are not allowed o ther than in very exceptional cases; nonresident transfers are treated on their individual merits, sympathetic consideration being given to cases of personal hardsh ip, special cases of business liquida- tion, etc. There are no restrictions on the receipt of capital funds f rom abroad, except that residents bo r row ing fo re ign currency must ob ta in prior exchange control approval. Changes during 1952 March 6 The au tho r i ty of au tho r ized banks to approve applications for for- eign exchange for travel was reduced, and the ir au tho r i ty re la t ive to the t r an s f er of em ig ran ts' f u n ds was w i thd rawn. March 8 Import licensing was extended to cover impo r ts f rom all countries. Import licenses would be issued on percentage quotas based on pre- vious imports in the base year 1950-51 for imports not previously covered by licensing requirements. The basis for issuing licenses for imports from hard currency countries remained unchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA1 Origin and Essential Features An exchange control system was established in Austria on October 9, 1931. It was reintroduced after the war, on July 25, 1946. The ex- change rate structure was revised November 25, 1949, and modified October 6, 1950. Restrictions are exercised through import licensing and through exchange licensing applied to imports free of import license and to payments for invisibles and capital. Most foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Some exports require licenses. Exchange Rate System 1 No par value for the schilling has been established with the Fund. There is a multiple exchange rate system consisting of two sets of official rates: (1) S 21.30 buying, S 21.42 selling, per US$1, appli- cable to merchandise transactions, incidental expenses, and certain invisibles, such as processing and finishing charges, settlements by railways and transport enterprises, film rights and royalties, and pay- ments for films; (2) premium rates of S 25.87 buying, S 26.13 selling, per US$1, applicable to the purchase and sale of exchange in connec- tion with transactions other than those listed above, e.g., travel and capital transfers. Other effective import and export rates arise from "linked" transactions and compensation transactions (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Administration of Control The exchange control administration is operated by the Austrian National Bank with authorized banks acting as agents in the tech- nical execution of the provisions of the exchange control law. Trade controls are conducted by the Central Export and Import Office, subordinated to the Federal Ministry of Trade and Recon- struction, in accordance with the decisions of the Economic Directo- rate. Exchange control and trade control authorities closely cooperate with each other to coordinate control policies in the field of interna- tional economic transactions. 1 Effective May 4, 1953, the exchange rate system in Austria was unified and an initial par value for the Austrian schilling of S 26 per US$1 was established. The corresponding alterations in the exchange system have not been taken into account in the present description, but the main aspects affected are indicated by references to this footnote. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 59 Prescription of Currency The method of settlement for exchange transactions is prescribed for practically all receipts or payments by means of exchange licenses issued by the exchange control authorities, and by the terms of bilateral payments agreements and arrangements. Two types of methods for settling international payments arise from bilateral payments agreements: 1. Bilateral payments are effected through an account of the Na- tional Bank with a corresponding foreign central bank and, in certain cases, through an account of a foreign central bank with the National Bank, in U.S. dollars as the currency of account. This method is applicable to Austria's settlements with Argen- tina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Turkey, Uruguay, and Yugo- slavia. 2. Bilateral settlements are effected through the account of the National Bank with a corresponding foreign central bank in the currency of the latter. This method is applicable to Austria's settlements with Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzer- land, and United Kingdom (including all other territories of the Sterling Area). Payments can also be effected through nonresident accounts which have a limited significance in the Austrian exchange control system. Imports and Import Payments Specified goods included in a published list and goods imported through "linked" and compensation transactions (see section on Ex- ports and Export Proceeds, below) are subject to individual import licenses. Some 310 tariff numbers (out of a total of 558) are listed as goods subject to control, the remaining numbers being partly or entirely free of import license. The issuance of import licenses is governed, among other fac to rs, by the following considerations: (1) the provisions of bilateral trade agreements and the efforts to f u l f i ll quotas established in accordance with such agreements; (2) needs of the Austrian economy; and (3) available exchange reserves. Deposits can be required up to 15 per cent of the invoice value of goods to be imported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 REPORT ON EX CHANGE RESTR ICT IONS The impo rt license constitutes a basis for gran t ing the exchange license w i th in two business days a f t er the issuance of an import license. The exchange is made ava i lab le immed ia te ly upon the p resen ta t ion of an exchange license. Payments on account of imports free of import licenses can be e f fec ted only upon the presen ta t ion of an exchange license wh ich is issued by the Na t ional Bank acco rd ing to exchange availability. Payments for Invisibles Most payments arising f rom invisible transac t ions are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing by the Na t ional Bank. Treatment accorded to such payments under b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreements is based on reciprocity. For paymen ts connected w i th the in te rna t ional transpor- ta t ion of goods, trave l, f a c i l i t a t ion of trade and services, registration of pa ten ts, subscriptions to newspapers, etc., licenses are gran ted accord ing to the merits of the case, w i th o ther considerations, such as ava i lab le exchange and reciprocal equal treatment on the pa rt of other countries, being taken into account. In other cases, the approval is given only if a license to conc lude the transaction wh ich gave rise to the payment (e.g., repayment of commercial credit) has been granted, or a license is issued only exceptionally (e.g., l i fe insurance p rem iums, inves tment income, em ig ran ts' f u n ds for own use, legacies, repatria- tion of inves tment c a p i t a l ). Persons t rave l ing abroad may take w i th them Aus tr ian bankno tes and coins up to S 1,000. A max imum of S 30 in those currencies whose rates are quo ted by the Na t ional Bank may also be taken, but resi- den ts must deduct th is f r om the max imum of S 1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Specified goods and goods exported th rough "linked"- and compen- sation transac t ions (see be low) are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. There are some 300 t a r i ff numbe rs (out of a to tal of 558) which are pa r t ly or en t ire ly inc luded in the list of exports sub ject to individual licensing. The issuance of export licenses is governed also by the considerations indicated in the second p a r ag r aph, points (1) and ( 2 ), of the section on Impor ts and Impo rt Payments, above. Export proceeds have to be surrendered w i th in eight days f rom the date of the ir collection. A n um b er of Au s t r i an exports must be sold against letters of credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 61 Foreign exchange proceeds accruing to residents th rough a clearing mechanism are norma l ly paid to them without delay. There are two no tewor thy exceptions to the general obligation to surrender export proceeds: 1. "Linked" transactions,2 under wh ich the exporter receives on an ad hoc basis an individual license so that a part of his export proceeds (w i th in limits of 25-90 per cent of the to ta l), a f ter having been surrendered to the National Bank, can be repur- chased for ind iv idua l ly licensed impor ts effected by the exporter himself or by another resident for the licensed importation of specified commodities. "Linked" transactions are limited to 10 per cent of the total export va lue, and the effec t ive export rate is not to exceed S 26 per US$1. 2. Compensation transac t ions wh i ch consist of ba r te r ing an export commodity against an impo rt commod i ty. Such transactions are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles have to be surrendered within eight days from the date of their collection. Certain institutions, such as insurance companies, patent offices, etc., are granted open licenses to dispose of their proceeds. Persons coming f rom abroad can bring in Aus tr ian banknotes and coins up to S 1,000. Capital New investments by nonresidents are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Applications for the t rans fer of capital and proceeds arising f rom new investments are dealt with on conditions determined for each case. The transfer of income and capital in respect of "old" investments is not perm i t ted; proceeds accru ing f rom "old" investments in any form are usually credited to blocked accounts, balances on which may be used within limits for specified personal expenses in Austria of an account holder and his fam i ly and for certain other specified trans- actions w i th in Austria. 2 As f r om May 4, 1953, "linked" transactions were abolished, except for those a l ready in i t ia ted and completed by June 30, 1953. See foo tno te 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952)s (schillings per t/jS. dollar) Buying Setting 21.30 Exports and specified commercial in- visibles. 21.42 Imports and specified commercial in- visibles. 25.87 Other invisibles and capital. 26.13 Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1952 No significant changes took place dur ing 1952, 1 Effective May 4, 1953, all exchange transactions are effected at S 25.92 buying, or S 26.08 selling, per USSl. See footnote 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Origin and Essential Features Exchange restrictions were introduced in Belgium on May 10, 1940. During the war, restrictions were applied separately in Belgium and Luxembourg. Under the present system, established in 1944-45, the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union constitutes a single exchange control authority, since Luxembourg, in agreement with Belgium, intro- duces and applies in Luxembourg the same control legislation applied in Belgium; Belgian and Luxembourg residents have the same exchange rights and obligations in both countries. Beginning in September 1951, several new restrictive measures were introduced. Prior to that date, the exchange control system was regarded as liberal. All incoming and outgoing payments must be made through author- ized banks, or in certain cases through authorized stockbrokers. Re- strictions are exercised through authorization requirements for imports and for nontrade payments. Exchange is granted for such payments only after authorization has been obtained f rom authorized banks or, where required, from the central exchange control authority. Most exports require licenses. Foreign exchange in certain currencies from commercial transactions must be surrendered; proceeds in these cur- rencies from other transactions may be retained, but the disposal of such exchange requires a license. Foreign currencies which need not be surrendered can be utilized only on the basis of a general or special authorization; the surrender of such currencies to authorized banks is likewise subject to authorization. Special conditions exist with respect to payments to EPU countries,1 their monetary areas, Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Residents are authorized to make payments to these countries without limitations. The prescription of currency is an integral part of the restrictive system of the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union, seeking to limit payments in hard currencies to imports and services which require payment in such currencies and to facilitate the reduction of soft currency surpluses. 1 These are listed as follows: Austria, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain (Sterling Area), Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange Rate System The par values are Belgian Francs and Luxembourg Francs 50 = US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for Canadian dollars, French francs, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars 2 are determined through the exchange market in which the banks may operate to e f fect au thor ized transac t ions; these rates are operative within o f f ic ial limits corresponding to Bfr 49.50 and Bfr 50.50 per US$1. Fixed buy ing and selling rates are established for other offi- cially quoted currencies. The currencies of EPU countries may be negotiated in a f ree market at f luc tua t ing rates, but the use of exchange thus acquired is limited to a few invisible transactions. Exchange Control Territory The Belgian Mone tary Area, which* consists of Belgium, Luxem- bourg, the Belgian Congo, and the Trust Territory of Ruanda -U rund i, is treated as a single exchange control terr i tory in relation to countries with which Belgium has concluded payments agreements. A l though the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda -U rundi have their own exchange control system, very few restrictions are in fo rce between the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union on the one side and the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda -U rundi on the other. Administration of Control The u l t im a te responsibility for the adm in is tra t ion of exchange con- trol in the Be lg ium-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change, wh ich is the central ex- change control au tho r i ty for the Union. Adm in is tra t ive powers for most payments and t r an s f e rs are delegated to au thor ized banks, or in certain cases to au tho r ized stockbrokers, but in special cases authorized banks must submit requests for au tho r iza t ion to the central authority. Certain imports and exports require licenses issued by the trade authorities, but licenses must be stamped by an au tho r ized bank in order to ensure that regulations are complied with b e fo re import or export can be effec ted and the payment made. W i th regard to cer ta in dollar imports which are not subject to import licensing, the central exchange control au thor i ty will seek the advice of the trade au thor i t ies be fo re au tho r i z ing a bank to perm it payment (but see also f o o t n o te 5 ). 2 Netherlands guilders, Swedish k rone r, Deutsche Marks, and Danish, kroner were added to this list on Janua ry 26, 1953, February 23, 1953, May 4, 1953, and May 18, 1953, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 65 Prescription of Currency The regulations detail the currency which is appropriate for pay- ment of imports and invisible transactions. In the main, payment must be made by transferr ing Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a nonresident account related to the country of residence of the bene f ic ia ry; or (1) in the currency of the coun t ry of residence of the beneficiary, if he resides in Czechoslovakia or an EPU country (except Austria, Greece, and T u r k e y ); (2) in U.S. or Canad ian dollars, if he resides in the "dollar a r e a " ;3 or (3) in sterling, if he resides in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, or Thailand. Similar principles covering the prescription of currency apply to inward payments. In addition, payment can always be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. When imported goods are re-exported from Belgium or Luxembourg, the currency received for the export must be as "hard" as th at paid out for the importation of the goods; and when Belgian or Luxembourg exports are to be subsequently re-exported f rom the country of original destination, the currency received must be as "hard" as the currency received by the re-exporting country or appropriate to the country of ultimate destination. Exceptions to these general principles require individual licenses. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r a nc accoun ts of nonresidents may be classified into three groups: 1. Nonresident accoun ts kept w i th au thor ized banks for account holders residing in countries other than Germany, Italy, Japan, and Spain are called fore ign B-accounts and are designated according to the country or mone ta ry area appropriate to the residence of the account holder. Credits to fo re ign B-accoun ts requ ire general or special authoriza- tion f rom the exchange control au tho r i ty; the accounts cannot be credited w i th bankno tes or coin. Only the fore ign B-accounts of banks located in EPU coun t r ies may be cred i ted for payments for goods and services f rom those coun t r ies. 8 The fo l low ing countries and terr i tor ies are inc luded in the "dollar area": Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guate- ma la, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippine Repub l ic, United States, Venezuela, and te r r i to r ies under the sovereignty of Canada and the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Foreign B-accounts can be debited, without authorization f rom the exchange control authority, for all payments to residents of the Bel- gian Monetary Area, except for those related to EPU countries and for payments related to the purchase from residents of domestic or foreign securities. The latter do not require authorization if the foreign B-account relates to a resident of Canada or the United States. Authorized banks must conform with special requirements in order to be able to make a payment in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a foreign B-account related to one of the EPU countries. Foreign B-accounts can always be utilized for payments of subscrip- tions to new shares issued by Belgian, Luxembourg, or Congolese companies in Belgian, Luxembourg, or Congolese francs. Foreign B-accounts can be debited for payments to other foreign B-accounts of account holders who reside in the same country or mone- tary area. Foreign B-accounts of account holders resident in Canada and the United States can be debited without special authorization for payments to foreign B-accounts of account holders residing in any other country except Switzerland. Foreign B-accounts of account holders residing in countries (or monetary areas) other than Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, French Monetary Area, Greece, Hungary, Lebanon, Nether- lands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Portuguese Monetary Area, Rumania, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, Yugoslavia, and the Sterling Area can be debited without special authorization for payments to foreign B-accounts of account holders residing in Andorra, Canada, Tangier, United States, or in one of the countries or monetary areas mentioned above, except Brazil. Foreign B-accounts can be debited for payments to nonresidents who are traveling in Belgium-Luxembourg to a maximum of Bfr 10,000 per day. This limit is reduced to a maximum of Bfr 2,000 per day 4 if the accounts to be debited are in the names of banks established in EPU countries. There is no limit to the amount per day that can be made available for this purpose from foreign B-accounts of account holders residing in Canada and the United States. Convertibility of balances on foreign B-accounts into the currency of the account holder is provided for account holders who reside in Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, United States, and the Sterling Area. 2. Nonresident accounts which are kept with authorized banks for account holders residing in Germany, Italy, Japan, and Spain are 4 Effective May 4, 1953, this amount was raised to Bfr 5,000 per day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 67 subject to special au thor iza t ion for all entries, unless the account holder is a Belgian or Luxembourg na t ional or a bank established in the Federal Repub l ic of Germany or in Italy. 3. Emigrants' nonresident accounts are those of former residents in Belgium-Luxembourg who established their principal residence abroad a f ter September 1, 1949. These accounts can be debited or credited only on special au thor iza t ion. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of import license, but an import declaration must be filled out for them. Certain imports, however, f rom any country require import licenses wh ich are issued by the trade control authorities. The goods wh ich need a license are listed by an inter- governmental Be lg ium -Luxembou rg commission. Both import licenses and import declarations must be stamped by an authorized bank before exchange can be made available and before importation can take place. The au thor ized bank is required to make certain that payment will be made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Various other requirements of the regulations must also be fu l f i l led before the documents can be stamped. In cases where these require- ments are not f u l f i l l e d, the authorized bank may request the central exchange control au thor i ty for special permission to stamp the docu- ment. For a number of imports sub ject to the import declaration procedure and payable in Canad ian or U.S. dollars or in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to the credit of a nonresident account related to Canada or the United States, approval of the central exchange control authority is required be fo re the bank can aff ix its stamp,5 and the central exchange control au thor i ty may consult the trade control au thor i t ies be fo re giving its approval. Payments for Invisibles Many paymen ts for invisible transactions require licenses, but there is ^ general allowance for normal invisible payments, subject to limita- tions as to maximum amounts for payments to certain countries. Invisible payments to EPU countries, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia may be made w i thout limitation as to amount. The export of domestic and foreign banknotes by * Effective February 1, 1953, the list of goods whose import is subject to the approval of the central exchange control authority was considerably reduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS travelers is allowed up to Bfr 25,000, but nonresident travelers may export more than Bfr 25,000 in fo re ign bankno tes if they can show that they brought in an amount equal to or h igher than the amount which they want to export. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for minor cases where the goods have a limited value, all exports require either an export license issued by the trade control authorities or an export dec lara t ion which is filled out by the exporter. An intergovernmental Belgium-Luxembourg commission lists the goods wh ich need an export license. Before the export can take place, the license or the dec lara t ion must be stamped by an authorized bank, in order to ensure that the proceeds will be received in accordance w i th the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in other than EPU currencies have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The recipient of export proceeds of more than Bfr 20,000 in EPU currencies sold to au tho r ized banks or debited to a nonresident account related to an EPU country must pay 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, or 20 per cent (accord ing to the nature of the merchandise) of the proceeds into a special account to be opened in his name at an author- ized bank which will not release the funds for six months. The holder of such an account may discount it with an authorized bank during the six-month period or use it as collateral for a loan. That part of the export proceeds in an EPU currency which is not sold to an authorized bank may be retained by the exporter, and he may sell it in a free market to other residents who may use it for a few specified invisible payments (e.g., tourism and certain cap i tal i tem s ), or may use it himself for similar payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Only exchange proceeds f rom commercial transactions in the cur- rencies of non-EPU countries must be surrendered. All other exchange proceeds may be retained, but, with the exception of some payments in EPU currencies, their disposal requires a license. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign or domestic banknotes which travelers may bring into Belgium or Luxembourg. Capital Residents desiring to import fore ign capital must consult the ex- change control authority for authorization. As a general rule, the inflow of foreign capital for investment purposes is au thor ized. Capi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG tal transfers f rom EPU countries are, as a general rule, allowed only when they are effected outside the channels instituted by payments agreements, e.g., through the utilization of the proceeds of the sale of Belgian, Luxembourg, or colonial securities or through a transfer of convertible currencies. When, by exception, such transfers are allowed through current channels, an amount equal to 32 per cent of the total must be held for six months in a special account, provided that the amount received is not less than B fr 1,000. The same rule applies to transfers of capital incomes. If a resident has complied with certain formalities, he may use for current payments and for investments abroad his foreign exchange receipts derived f rom capital. However, such receipts in EPU cur- rencies may be used only for investments and a few specified invisible payments. Capital transfers to EPU countries, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia can be made without restrictions. Capital transfers to other countries require individual authorization. Such authorization is usually granted when an economic interest is the basis for the transfer, or if the transfer is aimed at maintaining the percentage of the investment in companies abroad when these com- panies increase their capital. The exchange control authority may guarantee the repatriation of foreign capital invested in Belgium- Luxembourg. Banknotes Au thor ized banks and o ther exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell foreign banknotes at free market rates to and f rom residents and travelers. Residents holding foreign exchange assets, other than those wh ich have to be surrendered to an authorized bank, are author- ized to repatriate these assets through authorized banks in the fo rm of foreign banknotes. Banknotes cannot be used to settle trade trans- actions or be paid into nonresident accounts. Authorized dealers are not allowed to obtain foreign banknotes by crediting customers in foreign currencies or by debiting their fore ign correspondents in domestic or foreign currencies. Changes during 1952 January 9 The Deutsche Mark was added to the list of currencies in which capital could be transferred through authorized banks without special authorization f rom the exchange control authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS January 14 The limit of negotiation by authorized banks, without authorization f rom the exchange control au thor i ty, of travelers' checks in EPU cur- rencies or checks drawn on fore ign B-accounts of EPU countries was reduced f rom Bfr 10,000 per day to a maximum of Bfr 2,000 per day. January 16 The validity of export declarations related to exports for which payment is made in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs by debiting a for- eign B-account related to one of the EPU countries, or in one of the EPU currencies, was reduced f rom 180 days to 30 days. January 21 The authorized banks were allowed to effect permitted spot and fo rwa rd operations in pounds sterling, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss f r an cs w i th authorized banks in the country of the currency concerned. January 23 The percentage of exchange receipts exceeding Bfr 20,000 derived f rom exports to EPU countries wh ich must be held for six months in special blocked accounts was altered f rom 5 per cent for all exports to 5, 7.5, or 10 per cent, according to the classification of the goods exported. January 24 The National Bank of Belgium ceased to intervene in the fo rwa rd market for U.S. and Canadian dollars. February 23 Authorized banks were permitted to deal with payments derived f rom export and transit transactions with EPU countries without reference to the central exchange control authority. March 22 The percentages of exchange receipts exceeding Bfr 20,000 derived f rom exports to EPU countries wh ich must be held for six months in special blocked accounts were altered to 5, 7.5, 10, 15, 20, or 25 per cent, according to the classification of the goods exported (see Janu- ary 23, above ). In addition, 40 per cent of exchange receipts exceeding Bfr 1,000 derived f rom transfers of capital or capital income in Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs debited to a foreign B-account of a resident of an EPU country or received in the currency of an EPU country had likewise to be held for six months in special blocked accounts. However, holders of such blocked accounts were permitted to discount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG 71 them with an authorized bank or to use the deposit in the account as collateral for a loan f rom an authorized bank or other lender. June 3 Authorized banks were allowed to make all payments, without limitation as to amount, to EPU countries, Bulgaria, Finland, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. July 1 Exchange dealers and brokers authorized to effect certain trans- actions in securities and coupons could participate in the making of payments to EPU countries, Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia under the same conditions as authorized banks, and they were permitted to e f fect operations in U.S. and Canadian dollars within the limits of their professional activities. The authority to exercise exchange control in the Belgian Congo and Ruanda-Urundi was transferred f rom the Bank of the Belgian Congo to the newly created Central Bank of the Belgian Congo and Ruanda- Urundi. July 3 The ra te of interest on advances on Belgian Treasury certificates which can be obtained by authorized banks for the mobilization of the funds in special blocked accounts (see March 22, above) was lowered from 5.5 per cent to 3.0 per cent. July 4 The limit of negotiation by authorized banks, without authorization from the exchange control authority, of travel funds drawn on foreign B-accpunts of EPU countries (see January 14, above) was extended from Bfr 2,000 per day to a maximum of Bfr 10,000 per day, provided the account is opened in the name of a nonresident who does not have the status of a bank. July 29 The percentages of exchange receipts exceeding Bfr 20,000 derived from exports to EPU countries which must be held for six months in special blocked accounts were altered to 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, or 20 per cent, according to the classification of the goods exported (see March 22, above ); and the percentage of exchange receipts derived from transfers of capital or capital income subject to the same provision was reduced f rom 40 to 32 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS November 18 Residents holding foreign currency assets, other than those which have to be surrendered to an authorized bank, were authorized to repatriate their assets through authorized banks in the fo rm of foreign banknotes. December 29 Authorized banks were permitted to u t i l ize for bank ing operations foreign exchange balances held on beha lf of their* customers insofar as such operations were compa t ib le with their obligations to their customers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA1 Origin and Essential Features Control over exchange transac t ions was introduced in Bolivia in 1932 and has been amended at various times. In June 1937, the com- pulsory surrender of exchange f r om exports was in troduced by a decree wh ich also gave a priority cr i ter ion for the sale of exchange by the Banco Cen t ral de Bolivia and con ta ined a list of proh ib i ted exports. The last m a j or revision, in t roduced on Ap r il 8, 1950, produced a new set of exchange rates for the va r ious specified types of transactions. The restrictive system is based on a multiple exchange practice and quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports. Various exchange rates and taxes are established for d i f f e r ent categories of transactions. The quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ions are applied th rough ind iv idual licenses which arc g ran ted on the basis of exchange "availabilities" as indicated in the a n n u al exchange budget p repa red by the Cen tral Bank and the M in is t ry of Finance. Private exports are sub ject to license. Exports of several minerals are e f fec ted by the Banco Minero de Bolivia wh ich, by law, buys them f rom pr iva te companies. All export receipts must be surrendered at the established rates. Exchange Rate System 1 The par va lue is Bolivianos 60 == US$1. There are four buy ing rates of Bs 60, Bs 100, Bs 130, and Bs 245, per US$1, each of which applies to a specified category of transactions. The rates of Bs 60 and Bs 100 per US$1 are also "mixed" in given proportions for the exchange der iv ing f r om the exports of some m ineral products. There are five selling rates of Bs 60.60, Bs 101, Bs 130, Bs 190, and Bs 247 per US$1, wh ich are applied to specified transactions. In addi- 1 E f f e c t ive May 14, 1953, a new par value was established for the boliviano at Bs 190 per US$1, and the exchange system was s imp l if ied. All previously existing exchange taxes, mu l t ip le impo rt and export rates, retention quotas, and compensa- tion and divisas propias arrangements were eliminated. According to the new arrangements the exchange system consists of an official marke t, where the rates are fixed on the basis of the new parity, and a free market, where the rates fluctuate The off ic ial ma rket is for all trade transactions, government payments, registered cap i ta l, and ce r ta in specified invisibles; the free market is for all o ther items A tax equivalent to Bs 35 per US$1 was levied on sales of exchange at the off ic ial rate arising from exports of the Bolivian Mining Corporation. Ad valorem taxes of 50 per cent and 100 per cent were imposed by the customs on the c a . f. va lue of less essential imports. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tion, a tax of Bs 3 per US$1 is added to the rates of Bs 60.60 and Bs 101, giving two "effective" rates which apply to certain transac- tions indicated in the Table of Exchange Rates, below; essential food- stuffs are excluded from this extra charge. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank in conjunc- tion with the Central Committee on Foreign Trade. The former, together with the Ministry of Finance, prepares annually an exchange budget for various categories of import commodities, which is taken by the latter as the basis for granting import licenses. The Ministry of Finance grants export licenses. All sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or the authorized banks. Foreign transactions involving the export of minerals are effected only by the Banco Minero or by the Bolivian Mining Corporation. Prescription of Currency Payments with payments agreement countries are made in the currencies and according to the methods laid down in the exchange control regulations for each of the countries involved. Payments for transactions with other countries are usually made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Within the limits of the exchange available, as indicated by the exchange budget, the Central Committee on Foreign Trade grants import licenses for various categories of commodities and for various currencies. Global quotas are established for categories of commodities and for individual commodities, and are distributed among the various importers on the basis of the characteristics of the transactions for which the license is applied. For imports to be paid for with an importer's own exchange (divisas propias), the application for an import license presented to the Central Committee must be accompanied by a corresponding foreign exchange d ra ft drawn to the order of the Central Bank. When an import license approved with official exchange is presented, the Banking Department of the Central Bank and the authorized banks grant the exchange in the currency and amount therein specified, af ter the merchandise has arrived in the Bolivian customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 75 Payments for imports of certain nonessential items can be effected against the surrender to the Central Bank of freely negotiable dollar certificates issued to domestic gold producers against the surrender of gold to the Banco Minero. Payments for Invisibles Payments on account of invisibles are subject to an exchange permit. Payments for invisibles incidental to import transactions are treated in the same way as the corresponding imports. Purchases of exchange for government payments and repayments of registered capital are effected at the rate of Bs 60.60 per US$1. The expenses of students abroad are effected at the rate of Bs 101 per US$1; other travel expenses are effected at the free rate of Bs 247 per US$1, except travel because of cancer or other illnesses requiring treatment abroad, for which payments are effected at the d ifferen t ial rate of Bs 100 per US$1. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of a number of specified commodities which are considered necessary to the national economy is prohibited. All other exports are subject to license. The export of minerals produced by small and medium-sized mining firms is effected through the Banco Minero. The Bolivian Mining Corporation is responsible for exports of the large mining companies; the Banco Minero, for exports of medium-sized and small mining companies. All exchange receipts from exports except those made by the Banco Minero must be surrendered through the authorized banks within 90 days from the issuance of the export license. The Banco Minero surrenders the exchange derived f rom exports of minerals to the Central Bank 30 days a f ter the exportation of the materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange from current invisibles must be surrendered at the Bs 245 rate. Capital Residents are required to surrender exchange receipts on account of capital at the Bs 245 rate. Payments abroad by residents may be authorized at the discretion of the Central Bank at the Bs 247 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Investment of foreign capital must be registered and surrendered at the Bs 60 rate in order to obtain a t rans fer guarantee. Under such guarantee, earnings up to 15 per cent of the capital per annum can be remitted abroad at the Bs 60.60 rate, and amortization quotas up to 30 per cent of the capital can be remitted abroad at that rate. Nonregistered capital transactions are e f fec ted at the Bs 245 (in- coming) and Bs 247 (outgoing) rates and are sub ject to administrative approval by the Central Bank. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952)2 (bolivianos per UJ5. dollar) Buying 60.00 Tin export proceeds. Percentages of other exports. Registered capital. Selling 60.60 Government payments. Essential food- s tuffs imported by the Ministry of Econ- omy. Registered capital. 63.60 (Bs 60.60 Rate plus Bs 3 Taxes) Essential imports other than essential foodstuffs. 100.00 (Differential Rate) Required percentages of non-tin exports. 101.00 (Differential Rate) Other authorized invisibles. 104.00 (B& 101 Rate plus Bs 3 Taxes) Other authorized imports. 130.00 Exports of certain minerals effec ted through the Banco Minero. 130.00 Certain specified imports effected through the Banco Minero. 190.00 Variable percentages of exports of small mining companies of certain minerals necessitating a subsidy. 245.00 ("Free" Market Rate)* Invisibles, Nonregistered capital. Note: The above rates for non-tin ex- ports are not usually effective buying rates. The effective buying rates for these export proceeds are determined by the percentages at which particular pro- ceeds are surrendered at the above rates. 190.00 Imports of specified luxury items ef- fected through the Banco Minero. 247.00 ("Free" Market Rate)* Certain authorized invisibles. Nonreg- istered capital. 2 See foo tno te 1 for subsequent changes. 3 Quoted by the Central Bank only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 77 Changes during 1952 May 26 Imports were divided into f o ur categories to wh ich the exchange rates of Bs 60, Bs 100, Bs 130, and Bs 190 applied. This change implied, among other things, that many items fo rme r ly prohibited could be impor ted by using so-called "personal exchange" (divisas propias). June 2 It was decreed (Decree No. 03072) that all m ineral production of la rge and medium-sized m i n i ng companies should be sold to the Banco Minero, wh ich wou ld take care of their expo r ta t ion and surrender the correspond ing exchange to the Central Bank. August 19 The Cen tral Bank began q u o t i ng a "free" market ra te for invisibles and nonreg is tered cap i ta l. The rate was o r ig ina l ly fixed at Bs 67, and la ter raised to Bs 245 per US$1. October 31 The Bo l iv ian M i n i ng Corpora t ion was au tho r i z ed (Decree No. 3059) to export the m in e r a ls p roduced in the na t iona l ized m in ing properties. The Corporation mu st su r render 100 per cent of its export proceeds to the Central Bank, wh ich in tu rn grants the Corporation the ex- change necessary for its opera t ions, con fo rm ing to the decrees regu- la t ing the su r render of the exchange proceeds of exports. December 9 A gold c e r t i f i c a te system was established und er wh ich the Banco M ine ro purchases gold f rom producers and issues the seller a do l lar ce r t i f ica te wh ich he can sell f ree ly to an impo r ter of a list of non- essential imports, the Central Bank redeeming the cer t if ica te. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL1 Origin and Essential Features Control over exchange transactions was introduced in Brazil in 1931 and has been amended at various times. In October 1949 practically all imports and exports were made subject to off ic ial authorization. The exchange system depends on the application of quan t i ta t ive restrictions to trade and exchange transac t ions and an exchange tax of 8 per cent applied to most payments.* Both imports and payments for imports and invisibles are sub ject to license.* The import licenses and the exchange licenses are granted according to d i f fe rent classifications of transactions wh ich establish the ir priority.* There are some delays in mak ing exchange in certain currencies ava i lab le to holders of ex- change licenses. Specified exports are sub ject to license and all export proceeds must be surrendered.* For the purpose of checking the declared price and of assuring the surrender of exchange, all exports are sub ject to a shipping permit.* Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Cruzeiros 18.50 = US$1. The off ic ial buy ing rate is Cr$18.38 per US$1, wh i le for specified transactions an official sell- ing rate of Cr$18.72 per US$1 is applied. For all other transactions an 8 per cent exchange tax applies, mak ing an effective rate of Cr$20.2176 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low) .* Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Bank of Brazil. The Export- Import Department of the Bank issues import and export licenses. The Advisory Commission on Foreign Trade (COCIE) establishes the general criteria for licensing specific products. Imports of fue l, wheat, and newsprint are sub ject to specific treatment by specialized agencies for the determination of over-all quotas and the currency of payment. Government imports are authorized directly by the President of the 1 On February 21, 1953, a new law establishing a f ree exchange market for most capital and invisible transactions as well as for some trade items went into effect, which changed in various ways the restrictive system as it existed during 1952. The main aspects of that system which have been affected by the new law are marked with an asterisk in the text. The changes are summarized in the note at the end of this survey. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 79 Republic. The Exchange Department of the Bank has authority over most incoming and all outgoing payments and issues exchange licenses.* Government payments are subject to authorization, but the Exchange Department has no authority to restrict them. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is enforced in relation to the currency of the country of origin (not of embarkation) of the imports, and of the country of final destination of the exports. There is, however, a specific agreement for re-exportation by Germany of certain Brazilian exports. Payments with payments agreement countries are effected through the respective accounts, which usually are maintained in "accounting" dollars or in Brazilian cruzeiros; payments with the Sterling Area are effected through Brazilian sterling accounts. Payments with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Except for a few specified items, all private imports into Brazil require an import license which is a prerequisite for obtaining an exchange license. Those exempted from prior import license require a prior "exchange quota" permit. An additional exchange license is necessary for all private import payments,* However, the presenta- tion of an import license or of an "exchange quota" permit does not guarantee that the exchange license will be issued. The Export-Import and the Exchange Departments of the Bank of Brazil follow d ifferent priority schedules and use d ifferent over-all limits for the issuance of the various types of import and exchange licenses.* For the purpose of licensing, imports can be divided into the follow- ing categories: 1. Specified commodities for which a prior import license is not required: government imports; imports of foreign diplomats; tools, capital goods, and luggage belonging to immigrants and tourists; and commodities classified as "superessential", which, however, are subject to exchange licensing (quota de cambio). 2. Imports of wheat, fuel, and newsprint, which are subject to a special system of licensing. 3. Commodities or groups of commodities subject to prior import licensing and for which it is deemed desirable to secure a regular ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS supp ly; a high priority is a t tached to the g ran t ing of import licenses for these commodities. 4. All rema in ing commodities, for which import licenses are granted w i th the lowest priority. 5. Imports licensed "without use of exchange", wh ich inc lude im- ports of automobiles by citizens who have rema ined abroad more than six months; imports of capital goods, and sometimes of consumers' goods, by foreign firms as inves tmen ts; and imports of mach inery and parts in subs t i tu t ion of imports previously au thor ized with use of exchange. 6. "Vinculadas" (p r iva te compensa t ion) opera t ions: The fore ign exchange proceeds of cer ta in exports wh ich encoun ter ma rke t ing d i f f icu l t ies abroad may be used, either in who le or in part, for the importation of goods, without the ir being, in e f fec t, sur- rendered or sub ject to the allocation procedure of the Exchange Department.* The Expor t-Import Department, in cons ider ing import license appli- cations, also takes into account whether convertible 2 or inconvertible currencies will be required, accord ing to their current availability to Braz i l. For this purpose a sem iannual import budget was prepared by the Export-Import Department in June 1952, wh ich took into account the availabilities provided for the payment of impor ts in the fore ign exchange budget prepared by the Exchange Depa r tment for the same period. For the purpose of licensing import paymen ts as well as other pay- ments, several categories exist. Hard currency exchange availabilities are allocated to the d i f fe rent categories in d i f f e r ent percentages, accord- ing to the priority. For so ft currency payments, there is no fixed percentage distribution among the d i f fe rent categories. The categories are as follows: (a) Government payments Wheat 1 Release of exchange licenses ac- ^ , I cording to schedules established by i specialized bodies dealing with the Newsprint ) licensing of these products. ue 2 These are listed as U.S. dollars and Swiss francs. Portuguese escudos were also considered to be in this group prior to the enforcement of the Brazilian- Portuguese payments agreement in mid-1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 81 (b) Preferential (c) First (d) Second (e) Third Essential imports All other authorized imports plus certain com- missions on trade transactions not included in the p re fe ren t ial categories.* Financial remittances only, including service of private debts, remittances of profits and divi- dends, amortization, royalties, etc.* All other permissible remittances.* The system of a l loca t ing exchange ava i lab i l i t ies has resulted in the accumu la t ion of a large volume of pend ing exchange license applica- tions. The period of delay in releasing exchange licenses varies accord- ing to the currency required and the category of payment. Dur ing 1952, the delays for most categories were of several mon ths' du ra t ion for near ly all currencies. Payments for Invisibles All payments and remittances for invisible transactions require an exchange license.* The priority for paymen ts of expenses incidental to trade transactions is de term ined by the corresponding import. Among other paymen ts and remittances, a priority is granted to trans- fers of prof i ts, interest, and dividends on registered investment (see section on Cap i ta l, b e low ). The gran t ing of exchange at the off ic ial rate for remittances abroad for personal debts, pensions, travel, charity, noncommercial services, and medical treatment is temporarily suspended.* Remittances for maintenance are limited to a specific monthly amount.* The exportation of Braz i l ian banknotes is pro- hibited. The re-export of fo re ign banknotes brought in by travelers requires a license.* Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the fo l low ing commodities (representing the bulk of Brazil's export t r a d e ), when made against the receipt of convertible currencies, are exempt f rom licensing: co f fee, cotton, tobacco, waxes, tea, cocoa, hides and skins, fresh fru i ts, cotton, woolen and silk yarns, other agr icu l tural products, precious stones, and some specified indus- trial products. Other exports require export licenses, which are granted without limitation, except when the goods are declared in short do- mestic supply or when obligations arising f rom international agree- ments must be fu l f i l led. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 REPOBT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Export proceeds must be surrendered through an authorized bank with the exception of those arising from "vinculadas" transactions.* Shipping permits are issued by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil after the declared export price and conformity to the exchange surrender requirements have been checked. Exporters are required to invest the cruzeiro equivalent of 20 per cent of their export proceeds in negotiable Treasury bills which pay 3 per cent interest per annum and mature in 120 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but exchange earnings from freight, insurance, and commissions may be kept in moderate amounts with authorized banks for payments on similar transactions. The importation of Brazilian banknotes is prohibited. Foreign banknotes may be imported subject to declaration.* Capital* Foreign investments in Brazil, including loans, must be registered with the Special Registry of the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil in order to acquire the right of transfer of capital, amortization, and earnings on such investments, and with the Superintendency of Currency and Credit in order to obtain exchange priority in the remittance of amortization and earnings.* Interest, dividends, and profits on registered capital may be trans- ferred, up to a maximum of 8 per cent annually, but this percentage may be increased by the authorities for particular investments; trans- fers above the 8 per cent limit are treated as capital transfers for exchange allocation purposes.* Transfers of registered capital and amortization are limited to a maximum of 20 per cent annually, but this percentage may be in- creased by the authorities for particular investments. Registered for- eign capital invested in government securities or in other fixed income securities may be transferred abroad in fu l l, a f ter two years in the country.* Payments on account of interest, dividends, and profits and on account of capital, within the mentioned limits, are exempt from the remittance tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 83 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (cruzeiros per t/jS. dollar) Buying 18.38 All incoming exchange. Selling 18.72 Foreign public debt service. Imports of specified essential foodstuffs, fuels, pe- troleum, lubricants, newsprint, and book paper. Registered capital up to 20% per annum and interest, dividends, and profits thereon up to 8% per annum. 20.2176 (Cr$18.72 plus 8% Tax) All other payments. Note: Twenty per cent of export pro- ceeds must be invested in negotiable Treasury bills which pay 3% interest per annum and mature in 120 days. Changes during 1952 January 1 The increase of the rem i t tance tax f r om 5 per cent to 8 per cent went into e f fect (see June 13, Th ird Annu al Report on Exchange Restrictions, page 54). January 25 A new list of commodities exempt f rom import licenses was issued (mach inery and equipment for agricultural, mining, and metallurgical indus tr ies). February 21 All materials considered as strategic were made sub ject to export license. December 5 A bill was passed by the B raz i l ian Congress by which a f ree market for certain transactions wras to be established. The bill was signed on January 7, 1953 and went into effect February 21, 1953. Note: The provisions of the law signed on January 7, 1953 which a f fect the system previously in operation, par t icu lar ly in respect to the points marked above w i th an asterisk, may be summar ized as fo l lows: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1. Exchange receipts f rom the exportation of products which satisfy certain requirements may be wholly or partly exempted by the Council of the Superintendency of Currency and Credit from the surrender obligation and may be sold on the free market, where rates freely determined by supply and demand prevail. 2. Exchange transactions in the free market are not subject to the 8 per cent exchange tax. The 20 per cent compulsory investment of export proceeds in Treasury bills is applicable to exports negotiated at the f ree market rate. 3. All free exchange market transactions are exempted f rom licens- ing. Moreover, exports and imports continue to be subject to licensing even though their proceeds are negotiated through the free market. 4. All payments incidental to exports and imports transacted through the free market, most incoming and outgoing capital, interest, dividends, as well as all other invisibles and personal remittances, are transacted on the f ree market. Such payments are exempted f rom the surrender requirement and f rom exchange licensing. 5. The inflow and ou tf low of national and foreign currency notes carried by tourists or travelers are free. 6. Receipts corresponding to certain registered foreign loans and credits considered of economic importance to Brazil are to be surrendered in the official market. The remittance abroad of income thereon may be transacted at the official rate. Capital may be brought into the country at the free market rate and, if granted registration according to established criteria, profits, dividends, and interest up to 10 per cent annually may be remitted at the official rate. The extent to which the above transactions are authorized at the o f f ic ial ra te depends on the "balance of payments possibilities." 7. Barter (private compensation) transactions are no longer per- mitted. 8. The law establishes coordination of the licensing operations of the Exchange Depar tment and of the Export-Import Department of the Bank of Braz il through the Council of the Superintend- ency of Currency and Credit. The Exchange Department and the Export-Import Department are requested to prepare for every ha l f -year period the budget of exchange receipts or avail- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 85 abilities and an estimate of exports forecast, respectively. On the basis of the exchange budget, the Council of the Superin- tendency will indicate (a) to the Export-Import Department the appropriation within which import licenses may be granted; and ( b) to the Exchange Depar tment the limits for granting exchange licenses ("exchange quota" licenses) for imports free f rom import license and for governmental payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Burma in February 1940 and followed the pattern of exchange control common throughout most of the Sterling Area. The foreign exchange control regulations were codified in 1947. Burma achieved the status of an independent state on Janua ry 4, 1948, and has continued as a member of the Sterling Area. Burma's restrictive system is based on the complete surrender of fore ign exchange which is then allocated by the control authorities for payments for goods, services, capital transfers, and other trans- actions. Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Burmese kyat. The official par i ty of the kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 := £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling ra te and the rates for other currencies in London ma in ta ined within official limits. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Union Bank of Bu rma w i th certain powers delegated to commercial banks au thor ized for this pur- pose. Import and export controls are managed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export control powers are also exercised by the State Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Board, the State Timber Board, and the State M ineral Marke t ing Board according to the commodities concerned. Prescription of Currency Since Burma avails itself of the paymen ts mechanism provided by the mone tary and payments agreements made by the United Kingdom with fore ign countries, Burma has detailed regulations prescribing the currencies in which transactions are to be settled. These prescriptions of currency are similar to those used by the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in sterling or in the appropriate Sterling Area currency. Imports and Import Payments The impor ta t ion of all goods is sub ject to regulations, and certain nonessential and luxury items are proh ib i ted. For certain essential 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA 87 items licenses norma l ly are granted f ree ly, wh i le for certain less essen- tial items licenses are issued on a quota or merit basis. Open general licenses are issued in respect of essential imports f r om all countries except Canada and the American Account countries.1 If evidence of importation has been or will be produced, the authorized banks auto- matically provide exchange in the fo rm prescribed in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cu r rency, above) in payment for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are sub ject to licensing, but authorized dealers may sell fore ign exchange in accordance w i th the regu la t ions. In general, paymen ts for items connected w i th t rade are a l lowed, and payments for other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of cer ta in items considered essential to the domestic economy is p roh ib i ted. Nongove rnmen tal exports requ ire licenses wh ich no rm a l ly are gran ted if the exporter agrees to su r render the exchange proceeds in a manner sa t i s fac to ry to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om invisibles must be surrendered. Capital All outgoing t rans fe rs of capital require a license. Incoming ex- change receipts of capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1952 January 3 Burma became a member of the In te rna t ional Monetary Fund. March 26 A new open general license (No. XVII) was issued covering cer ta in items —such as waxes, oils, essences, m anu f a c tu r ed ivory, copra, pea- 1 These are listed as fo l lows: Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Repub l ic, Un i ted States and possessions, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS nuts, and industrial diamonds —imported from countries other than Canada and American Account countries. July 1 The Union Bank of Burma was invested with the powers of a cen- tral bank. The unit of currency was changed from the Burmese rupee (divided into annas and pies) to the kyat (divided into 100 pyas). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Origin and Essential Features Ceylon introduced exchange control in September 1939. Since that time it has maintained an exchange control and restrictive system and policies similar, in m a jor respects, to those of other members of the Sterling Area. The last m a jor revision was on June 1, 1948, when ex- change control was extended to include transactions with the Sterling Area. Ceylon's restrictive system is based on the concept of a complete surrender of fore ign exchange which is then allocated by the control authorities to payments for goods, services, capital transfers, and other transactions. Exchange Rate System On January 17, 1952, the Fund announced the initial par value for the Ceylon Rupee at Cey Rs 4.76190 = US$1. The exchange rate system is un i fo rm, the ra te for the U.S. dollar being based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rates and the sterling-U.S. dollar rates in London maintained between official limits. The market rate as at December 31, 1952 was Cey Rs 4.7375 buy ing, Cey Rs 4.7625 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through authorized dealers, which are banks authorized to transact business in specified currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices on permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Since Ceylon avails itself of the payments mechanism provided by the monetary and payments agreements made by the United Kingdom with foreign countries, Ceylon has detailed regulations prescribing the currencies to be received f rom abroad in payment for all exports and invisible transactions, and prescribing the currencies to be used for payment for all imports and invisible transactions, depending upon the country or monetary area with which the transactions are con- ducted. These prescriptions are similar to those used by the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. In general, the regula- 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tions governing payments provide that beneficiaries resident in the Sterling Area are to be paid in any currency of the Sterling A rea; beneficiaries resident outside the Sterling Area are to be paid only in the currency of the country of origin of the goods, or in sterling or rupees, to the credit of an account in favor of a person in the country of origin or in the same monetary area. Receipts from foreign trans- actions, in general, can be in local currency, through appropriate non- resident sterling accounts in the United Kingdom, or, in some cases, in specified foreign exchange. Transactions involving deviation from the regulations on prescription of currency require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts consist of accounts of individuals resident out- side, and of firms or banks situated outside, Ceylon. The nature and types of nonresident accounts are determined by the payments and monetary agreements made by the United Kingdom (and operative throughout the Sterling A rea) with the non-Sterling Area countries. Certain rules apply to the use of these accounts, which differentiate between the accounts of banks and of persons and firms. Although there are no specific provisions to enable the individual nonresident to obtain conversion into his own currency of amounts credited to his account, transfers for banks and correspondents from rupee accounts in Ceylon to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of a few items, such as firearms for use by the armed forces, imports of goods are subject to regulation. However, many commodities are governed by open general licenses and may be imported free ly without an individual license. The most recent set of open general licenses was introduced on June 28, 1951. One open general license authorizes the import without an individual license of a wide range of commodities f rom all sources except the dollar area, China, Germany, and Japan. A second lists items which may be imported free of license f rom the dollar area. A third permits the import of a few items from all countries except Australia, China, Ger- many, and Japan. A fou r th, which became effective September 23, 1952, applies to certain goods wh ich previously could be imported with- out license from all sources except the dollar area and Japan; these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON 91 goods may now be imported without license f rom all countries except the dollar area, China, Japan, and certain European countries.1 All other commodities, i.e., those not on an open general license, require specific individual import licenses which are granted on the basis of essentiality with preference for "soft" currency countries.2 No licenses are issued for some products grown or manu fac tu red locally. Some essential items, such as sugar, flour, and rice, are im- ported only on government account. An authorized dealer may approve an application for the remittance of foreign exchange or for the transfer of rupees to a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes or undertakes to furnish evidence of importation and cost of goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. When the goods are under open general license, the applicant must have made a declaration to that effect on the application. Regulations also prescribe the cur- rencies to be used for payments to d ifferent countries and monetary areas (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are also subject to exchange licensing. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange in accordance w i th a detailed set of regulations. Payments for freight and other services in connection with the international transportation of goods are allowed. Payments for international travel fares are permitted, provided certain conditions are met. Payments for business travel are also allowed on application. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic rations which vary according to the country to be visited; however, no basic ration is allowed for tourist travel to the dollar area. Other remittances of a personal nature are granted for reasonable requirements for education, travel, health, or fam i ly reasons. Business remittances to any country normally are approved, particularly when they are of a recurring or contractual na ture, e.g., insurance premiums. Emigrants (Ceylon nationals) are permitted to transfer their entire assets if emigrating to a Sterling Area country or to Denmark, Norway, 1 These countries are listed as fo l lows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. 2 In the Ceylon regulations, "soft" currency countries are all countries other than Canada and the American Account Area, which together are referred to as the "dollar area" or "hard currency" area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS and Sweden, but up to certain limits if emigrating to any other non- Sterling Area country. Remittances of profits and dividends of non- residents are freely permitted. Travelers may export foreign exchange which was declared at the time of entry. The exportation of currency notes is subject to a limit of Cey Rs 140 per person per month. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of goods f rom Ceylon are subject to license issued by the Controller of Exchange. Export of certain manufac tured goods and re-export of fore ign m anu f a c tu r ed articles are not allowed except under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are not allowed except in special circumstances. In addition to the export license for exchange control purposes, issued by the Con- troller of Exchange, export licenses f rom the Controller of Exports are required for all but a few commodities. The exchange control export licenses are not issued unless the ex- porter undertakes to recover payment for the f u ll value of the goods and to deliver to an au thor ized dealer the export proceeds in a pre- scribed manner w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of shipment. The currencies in wh ich payment for exports to d ifferent countries or mone- tary areas must be received are stipulated by the control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of incoming foreign exchange at official rates is also required for invisible transactions. In addition, specified currencies have to be received for invisible transactions, following the prescrip- tion of currency applicable to commodity exports. Travelers are not restricted in the amounts of foreign funds they carry into Ceylon in the fo rm of travel credit instruments, but they are obliged to declare, upon entering, their holdings of currency notes and coin. The import of sterling notes in excess of £10 is allowed only with the permission of the Controller, and the import of Indian and Pakistan currency notes, as well as of Ceylon notes, is restricted to a maximum of Cey Rs 140 in any one mon th. No restriction on the import of other currency notes and coins is in force. Capital Certain capital movements between Ceylon and the rest of the Sterling Area are free ly permitted; these are the voluntary repatriation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON 93 of investments of persons resident in the rest of the Sterling Area, the transfer of savings by persons temporarily resident in Ceylon and re turn ing to another Sterling Area country for permanent residence, and the t rans fer to Ceylon of capital held in the rest of the Sterling Area by Ceylon nationals. Also, t rans fe rs of capital into Ceylon are permitted for direct investment in Ceylon businesses, or for the estab- lishment of branches or agencies of concerns resident in the United Kingdom or in the rest of the Sterling Area, if such transfers are likely to be for desirable trade and commercial business. D ifferent regulations cover capital movements between Ceylon and non-Sterling Area countries. Generally, inward transfers for invest- ment in approved projects are permitted freely. Remittances of a capital na tu re — for example, to purchase securities, properties, annui- ties, etc., abroad —are restricted. Securities owned by residents and on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (or the holder has an option to require payment of the principal, interest, or d iv idends) in U.S. or Canad ian dollars or Swiss francs have to be registered with the Controller, and no person is allowed, except with the permission of the Minister of Finance, to sell or transfer such securities. Since the end of 1949, capital invested in Ceylon by a non- Sterling Area resident can be repatriated at his request up to the amount of the original investment, provided the investment has received prior approva l. Changes during 1952 January 17 The initial par value for the Ceylon rupee was established w i th the International Monetary Fund at Cey Rs 4.76190 = US$1. August 26 Certain goods, mainly textiles and luxury articles, from "hard" currency countries were removed f rom open general license. September 2 Personal remittances to other Sterling Area countries were reduced f rom Cey Rs 250 to Cey Rs 100 per month for each person, and from Cey Rs 1,000 to Cey Rs 500 per month for those who maintain a current bank account. Basic travel rations were reduced as follows: (1) for travel to India, Pakistan, Burma, and Ma laya, f rom Cey Rs 2,000 to Cey Rs 1,000 per adult, for each calendar y e a r; (2) for travel to other Sterling Area countries, f rom £1,000 to £500 per adult, for each three-year period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS September 23 Certain goods, mainly textiles and luxuries, were w i thd rawn from the open general license permitting certain imports f rom countries outside the dollar area and Japan and were placed on a new open general license permitting their import f rom all countries except the dollar area, China, Germany, Japan, and certain European countries (see footnote 1, above). Margarine and lard were withdrawn f rom the open general license permitting imports from all countries except Australia (and later, China, Germany, and Japan) and brought under license from all sources. November 12 Basic rations for travel to India were reduced from Cey Rs 1,000 to Cey Rs 500 per adult per year for persons not citizens of Ceylon, to be set off against the basic ration of Cey Rs 1,000 for Pakistan, Burma, and Malaya (see September 2, above). November 28 All goods from China were brought under license. December 1 The permitted exchange allowance for personal remittances f rom current bank accounts was reduced from Cey Rs 500 to Cey Rs 200 per month (see September 2, above). Personal remittances not exceed- ing Cey Rs 100 to other Sterling Area territories continued to be allowed, but required the presentation of an exchange control card instead of a rice ration book. All permits for remittances against rice ration books were canceled. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Chile in 1931 and has since undergone a number of changes. The last ma jor revision took place on November 21, 1950, when a new exchange control law codified the system and made certain administrative changes. Payments and receipts of exchange for nontrade transactions were permitted freely through the free market, although payments by commercial enter- prises continued to be subject to license. Provision was made for a transfer guarantee to be extended to registered foreign capital. The main features of the restrictive system, at present, are multiple exchange rates on both the buying and selling side, two legal "free" markets, where exchange rates fluctuate, and quantitative restrictions on imports. In addition, special compensation arrangements are in effect between gold and wine exports on the one hand, and luxury imports on the other. Exports are subject to license, except exports of copper, iron, iodine, and nitrates. Export proceeds must be surrendered, with certain exceptions. Exchange Rate System The par value is Chilean Pesos 31 = US$1. For exports of goods and services there are five fixed official rates, two free market rates, three effective rates obtained by a "mixing" procedure, and two rates resulting from compensation arrangements for exports of wine and newly mined gold. For imports of goods and services there are four fixed official rates, plus the two free market rates and the two rates resulting from compensation arrangements mentioned above. Each of these rates applies to a specified category of goods and services (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the National Foreign Trade Council, which is an autonomous public agency. The Council grants export and import licenses, and it must be consulted by the banks before they sell exchange to licensed importers. All exchange transactions, except those made on the "nonbanking free market", are carried out through the Banco Central de Chile or the authorized banks. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Prescription of Currency Payments for transactions with Brazil, Ecuador, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom must be made according to the method and in the currency established in the regula- tions which give e f fect to the terms of the payments and compensation agreements with the respective countries. This applies also to the payments under special arrangements entered into by the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (a pub l ic agency) for exports of nitrate and iodine to Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden. Exports of copper and iron must be paid for in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are sub ject to license. The importation of certain luxury goods and of goods of a type domestically produced is prohibited. Licenses are granted to established importers up to the limit of their individual quotas, which are fixed on the basis of an exchange budget prepared by the National Foreign Trade Council. For listed luxury goods which are allowed to be imported, import licenses are granted up to the limit of the exchange receipts f rom exports of wine and newly mined domestic gold. Exchange quotas are fixed on the basis of the availabilities of the various types of exchange and, particularly, on the basis of trade and payments agreements. Payments for licensed imports must be approved by the National Foreign Trade Council. Payments for import transactions with pay- ments agreement countries must be made in the currencies and accord- ing to the methods laid down in the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad at fixed rates in respect of invisibles require a license; other payments may be made through one of the free markets according to the na tu re of the transaction. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of copper, iron, nitrate, and iodine, exports re- quire a license. The expor ta t ion of certain specified commodities is prohibited by the Government. For exports of agricultural products, the Institute of Ag r icu l tu ral Economy has issued specific regulations that must be fo l lowed by the Na t ional Foreign Trade Council, which grants the export licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 97 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Government at the exchange rate established for each transaction. Foreign exchange de- riving from exports of copper and iron by foreign-owned mining com- panies must be surrendered at the rate of P 19.37 per US$1 up to an amount equivalent to the legal cost of production, wh ich is fixed quarterly. All other exchange proceeds f rom exports must be sur- rendered entirely. The proceeds of exports of wine and newly mined domestic gold may be used for the importation of designated luxury goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Part of the exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be sold in a fluctuating f ree market. Other receipts f rom invisibles are dealt with at the various fixed rates. Capital Large m in ing companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization payments on in- vested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Remittances by other foreign companies of interest, dividends, and amortization payments on investments made a f ter November 21, 1950, and duly registered according to the established rules, may be made through a f ree market. In certain cases, however, the Council may establish special conditions for these remittances. Transfers abroad of domestic cap i tal may be made through the free market. Exchange receipts on account of capital may be sold in the free market. The exchange representing foreign capital newly introduced into the country may be sold in the same market. Copper and iron companies may sell such exchange, however, at the rate of 60 pesos per US$1. In order to remit abroad income and amortization pay- ments on the capital in question, the capital must be registered in accordance with the regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (pesos per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling 19.37 Sales of exchange by the large mining companies (copper and iron) to cover legal cost of production; sale of approxi- mately 2% of the proceeds of exports of nitrate and iodine. 31.00 Liquidation of certain insurance government receipts. and 43.00 Certain invisible foreign-trade items. 49.85 (35% at P 31 and 65% at P 60) Exports of untanned hides, skins, and wool. 31.10 Imports of drugs, sugar, newsprint, tal- low, and certain government imports. Certain invisible foreign-trade items. 43.10 Imports of raw cotton and a few other articles. 50.00 Exports of nitrate and iodine (first half 1952). 50.10 Imports of wheat, rice, gasoline, ships, etc. Certain invisible foreign-trade items. 60.10 General import rate, including crude oil, tea, yerba mate", paraffin, antibi- otics, kerosene, rubber, jute, cellulose, industrial and agricultural machinery, etc. 60.00 Exports of certain agricultural products (barley, kidney beans, soapbark, timber) and of copper and bronze scraps. Sales of exchange by large mining companies (copper and iron) to cover local currency expenses for new investments in the country. Exports of nitrate and iodine (second half 1952). 71.60 (80% at P 60 and 20% at Free Market Rate) Exports of beans. 89.00 (50% at P 60 and 50% at Free Market Rate) Exports of lentils. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 99 Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesos per U£. dollar) Buying 118.00 (Banking Free Market Rate) Medium and small mining, agricultural, and industrial exports, crude petroleum, and private capital. Selling 118.00 (Banking Free Market Rate) Machines and tools, chemical products, etc. Profits and dividends of foreign capital. 128.50 (Nonbanking Free Market Rate) Travel receipts. 128.50 (Nonbanking Free Market Rate) Travel expenses. 138.00 (Banking Free Market Rate plus P 20 per US$1) Wine exports. 138.00 (Banking Free Market Rate plus P 20 per US$1) Certain specified l u x u ry imports. 155.00 (Fluctuating Rate) Exports of newly mined gold. 155.00 (Fluctuating Rate) Certain specified luxury imports. Changes during 1952 March 29 The pegging of the "bank ing f r ee ma rket rate" at P 90 per US$1 was discontinued. April 24 New imports of commodities listed in Group A .I ( impo r ts quan t i- tatively uncontrolled at f ree market rates) were suspended. Imports of commodities listed in Group A.2 ( impor ts quan t i ta t ive ly uncon- trolled at fixed rates) were t ran s fe r red to G roup B.2 ( impo r ts quan- titatively controlled at fixed ra tes). May 13 Sales of exchange receipts f rom exports of ce r ta in agr icu l tura l, chemical, and mineral produc ts could be made at the f r ee m a rk et rate. June 4 The importation of luxury articles was suspended. June 26 A new list of p roh ib i ted imports was published. Exceptions were provided for imports of products wh ich the domestic indus t ry could not supply in suff ic ient quan t i ty and for products produced in Chile at a cost 50 per cent h igher than the price of similar foreign products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The National Foreign Trade Council was given discretional powers to au thor ize the importation of prohibited goods in specified cases. July 26 The importation of luxury articles was again permitted. New lists were published of articles wh ich could be imported dur ing the second half of 1952 by using the proceeds f rom exports of wine and newly produced domestic gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was first introduced in Taiwan on June 15, 1949. The present system has operated since April 9, 1951. Control is applied to all foreign t rade and exchange transactions and there is no recog- nized free market. The structure of the restrictive system in Taiwan rests on (1) a restrictive import licensing policy, (2) restrictions on payments for invisibles and cap i ta l, and (3) a mu l t ip le exchange rate system. Exchange Rate System There is no par value for the New Ta iwan Dollar. There is a mul- tiple exchange rate system consisting of the Bank of Taiwan rate, a foreign exchange deposit cer t if ica te rate, and two mixed rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). The Bank of Taiwan rate applies to government payments, private essential imports, exports of govern- ment enterprises, 20 per cent of most private exports, and 60 per cent of salt and camphor exports. The rema in ing percentages and payments for other transactions are effec ted at the ce r t i f ica te rate. The Bank of Taiwan quotes off ic ial (and ce r t i f ica te) rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars, and Straits dollars, but these rates are not related at the par values agreed by the Fund for these currencies. Administration of Control The exchange control system in Taiwan is operated by the Bank of Taiwan, through wh ich all sales and purchases of fore ign exchange must be effected. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, sterling convertible into U.S. dollars, or, in a few cases, Straits dollars. There are no legal obligations prescribing the method or channel of payment to persons abroad (except for Japan and the Ryukyus, trade with both of which is conducted through special settlement accounts under the terms of agreements with those a reas ). Payments must be made in U.S. dollars or pounds sterling according to the currency area involved and generally hard currency is not provided for payments in soft currency countries where the Bank of Taiwan has balances in that currency. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 REPOET ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Nonresident Accounts The exchange control system does not d ifferen t ia te between the accounts of residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports require ind iv idual import licenses. Imports of certain specified luxuries are proh ib i ted, and imports of specified commodities which may be produced locally or of wh ich there are su f f ic ient stocks are temporarily suspended. Private importers must submit applica- tions to a Preliminary Screening Committee and at the same time deposit a margin in new Taiwan dollars with the Bank of Taiwan. This margin was 50 per cent if exchange was required at the Bank of Taiwan rate, and 20 per cent if the app l ica t ion was for exchange at the certificate rate. Since April 21, 1952 it has been 100 per cent for both transactions. Recommendations by the Pre l im inary Screening Com- mittee for approval are tabu la ted according to rate and fo rwa rded to a Production Finance Committee (wh ich also handles the applications f rom government enterprises) for final decision. The Bank of Taiwan rate is accorded to those imports regarded as the more essential. When the import license is granted, the holder is au toma t ica l ly entitled to obtain the necessary fore ign exchange f rom the Bank of Taiwan at the applicable rate. Payments are effec ted either in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars, or Straits dollars, for which currencies there are officially quoted rates. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents in respect of invisibles are restricted by a quota fixed mon th ly by the authorities (except government paymen ts and trade items, such as f re ight and insurance, where permission to e f fect payment is determined by the approval to import the related commodities). Applicants for exchange for invisibles must apply to the Preliminary Screening Committee for Ou tward Remittances wh ich passes its recommendations to the Production Finance Committee for final decision. In general, reasonable amounts of fore ign exchange are granted for t rans fer of p ro f i ts on fo re ign investments, reinsurance premiums, and travel other than pleasure. Payments in respect of invisibles are usually au thor ized at the cer t if ica te rate. Travelers leaving Taiwan may take with them no more than US$200 of fore ign currency. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (TAIWAN) 103 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are granted after the Bank of Taiwan has examined and verified the amount of foreign exchange involved in the export. All export proceeds must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, sterling convertible into U.S. dollars, or, in a few cases, Straits dollars. These export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Taiwan. Government enterprises surrender their total export proceeds at the Bank of Taiwan rate, except for camphor and salt exports for which 40 per cent is surrendered at the certificate rate. Private ex- porters surrender 20 per cent of their export proceeds at the Bank of Taiwan rate in return for local currency and the remaining 80 per cent for foreign exchange deposit certificates or local currency at the prevailing certificate rate. The proceeds of sluggish government ex- ports and some sluggish private exports are surrendered 100 per cent at the certificate rate. The foreign exchange deposit certificates are of two kinds: transferable and nontransferable. The non transferab le certificates can be used only in payment for imports and are valid for four months when they can be sold for local currency only to the Bank of Taiwan. The transferable certificates are issued to any person against payment in U.S. dollar notes or gold and are valid for two months within which time they can be sold to the Bank of Taiwan or exchanged for nontransferable certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All residents of Taiwan receiving foreign exchange are required to surrender their receipts to the Bank of Taiwan and may either take exchange certificates or obtain local currency at the certificate rate. Travelers entering Taiwan may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency and either hold it or surrender it at the certificate rate. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency. Capital Capital payments due to nonresidents are not normally approved, and the repatriation of foreign capital is allowed only in special cir- cumstances. New capital investments abroad by residents are pro- hibited. Residents are permitted to hold foreign exchange representing capital receipts but may dispose of this exchange only by surrendering it to the Bank of Taiwan for exchange certificates or local currency at the certificate rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1952)* (new Taiwan dollars per U.S. dollar) Buying 10.25 (Bank of Taiwan Rate) Receipts of the Government and govern- ment enterprises (except from exports of camphor and salt, sluggish government exports, government shipping compa- nies, and some sluggish private exports). 12.37 (60% at NT$10.%5 and 40% at Foreign Exchange Deposit Certifi- cate Rate) Government exports of camphor and salt. 14.49 (20% at NTSW.25 and 80% at Foreign Exchange Deposit Certifi- cate Rate) Most private exports. 15.55 (Foreign Exchange Deposit Cer- tificate Rate) Sluggish government exports. Some jdug- gish private exports. Invisibles. Capi- tal. Changes during 1952 April 21 Selling 10.30 (Bank of Taiwan Rate) Government payments. Specified essen- tial imports. 15.65 (Foreign Exchange Deposit Cer- tificate Rate) Other authorized imports. Authorized invisibles. New regulations were introduced, simplifying the procedure for application for foreign exchange deposit certificates by importers and thus considerably reducing the time taken to process such applications. Private importers had to submit applications to a Preliminary Screen- ing Committee and at the same time deposit a 100 per cent margin in new Taiwan dollars with the Bank of Taiwan. 1 Effective January 5, 1953, certain changes were made in the exchange system whereby the use of the NTS10.25 rate and the NT$12.37 rate applicable to govern- ment exports of camphor and salt were abolished and the NTS14.49 rate was limited to sugar and rice exports only, while all other receipts and payments were settled at the certificate rates of NTS15.55 buying, and NTS15.65 selling, per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls and restrictions were originally introduced in Colombia in September 1931. The last m a jor revision occurred on March 20, 1951, when a complete change in the exchange and import control system took place. Except for a prohibited import list of some 1,200 specified luxury or locally produced items, practically all licens- ing restrictions on imports were removed, leaving only a prior regis- tration procedure for permitted imports; the basic buying and selling rates of Ps$1.95 and Ps$1.96 per US$1 were depreciated to Ps$2.50 and Ps$2.51, respectively; and the multiple exchange rates were considerably simplified. However, multiple rates still result f rom the application of exchange taxes, the existence of a mixed effective rate for proceeds of coffee exports, and the use of negotiable "export vouchers" for m inor exports and nonessential imports. Exchange Rate System The par value is Colombian Pesos 1.94998 = US$1. The official rates are Ps$2.50 buying, Ps$2.51 selling, per US$1. Taxes of 2 per cent, 3 per cent, and 6 per cent yield three additional selling rates of exchange, and a mixing arrangement for coffee exports yields another buying rate. Other effective buying and selling rates arise from an "export voucher" system under which the exchange accru- ing from certain minor exports may be used to pay for specified imports wh ich otherwise are proh ib i ted. These vouchers are nego- tiable and command a premium in the free market (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control To make imports, exports, or exchange payments to foreign coun- tries, prior application for the registration of the transactions must be made at the Exchange Registration Office which is part of the Banco de la Republica. Purchases and sales of exchange may be effected either with the Banco de la Republica or with the commercial banks which act as authorized agents of the Banco de la Repub l ica. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts f rom the Belgian Monetary Area, Den- mark, Ecuador, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, and 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Spain, including payments for goods originating in those countries purchased from third countries, must be effected through the clearing account appropriate to the origin of the goods in accordance with the provisions of the respective bilateral payments agreements. Payments to and from the Sterling Area are made in U.S. dollars or "American Account" sterling. Payments in accordance with a commercial ar- rangement between Colombia and France are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts consist of sight, time, savings, and current account peso deposits held in Colombia in favor of nonresidents. Credits and debits to these accounts require prior registration. Balances on these accounts may be converted into foreign exchange only when they are derived from imported and registered capital, or when the t rans fe rs are in tended to pay for a transaction of obvious advantage to the country. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain luxury goods and goods of a type produced locally is prohibited. All other imports require prior application for registration. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application fo rm, i.e., registration is granted. A stamp tax of 3 per cent is collected on each import registration, except for official items and imports of foreign capital goods. This tax is not refundable. In addition, a cash deposit of 10 per cent of the value in Colombian pesos of the import has to be made as a pre- requisite to the registration. Certain items included in the prohibited list (lightweight auto- mobiles up to 2,728 pounds, wines, ch inaware, glass objects, radios, ceramics, and dried f ru i ts) may be imported when they originate in, and are imported from, countries ma in ta in ing a balanced trade with Colombia or having trade agreements with Colombia. In this respect, the following countries have been specified to date: Canada, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, and United States. Under the "export voucher" system, other prohibited imports (automobiles weighing up to 3,630 pounds, preserved or canned meats, solid or liquid meat extracts, and preserved or canned fish) may be imported into Colombia w i th "export vouchers" received upon the surrender of exchange earned f rom certain minor exports. The vouchers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 107 used for this purpose must relate to exports to the country from which the imports are made and the items originate. Payments for imports require exchange registration. Registration is granted upon submission of the import registration and evidence that the goods have been shipped. Payments are effected at the basic selling rate of Ps$2.51 and must be made in the appropriate cur- rency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and, in some cases, require the payment of taxes and for certain nonessential items, the surrender of an "export voucher". Payments for Invisibles Payments and remittances abroad require prior registration. Certain essential payments may be effected at the selling rate of Ps$2.51 without tax. Other authorized payments are effected at this rate plus the stamp tax or both the stamp tax and resident tax. Exchange for travel abroad is granted up to a limit of US$600 per month per person for not more than two months per year at the rate of Ps$2.51 plus taxes totaling 6 per cent. Students meeting the legal requirements are allowed remittances of up to US$250 or US$150 per mon th, depending on the type of study, at the rate of Ps$2.51, free of tax. For medical treatment outside Colombia, up to US$1,500 is granted at the selling rate of Ps$2.51 plus 6 per cent total taxes. Earnings on registered foreign capital may be transferred at any time at the rate of Ps$2.51 plus 3 per cent stamp tax. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior application for registration. If the appli- cation meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the appli- cation form, i.e., registration is granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered as follows: within 10 days for foreign exchange derived f rom coffee exports or other exports payable by letter of credit usable upon presentation of the bill of lad ing; within 6 months for foreign exchange from shipments on consignment or from exports other than coffee, not reimbursable by credit payable upon presentation of the bill of lading; within one year for foreign exchange derived from the export of articles manufac tured in the country. Minimum surrender prices are established for exports. The proceeds from coffee exports are purchased partly at the Ps$1.95 rate and the balance at the Ps$2.50 rate. The percentage to be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate is increased by 1^ per cent each month until the rate reaches the Ps$2.50 level. All other export proceeds are surrendered entirely at the Ps$2.50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rate. However, exporters of specified minor exports (some agricultural products, salt, tanned hides, leather manufac tures, designated textiles, cement, beer, sugar, sulphur, tobacco, nonprecious metals, nonmetallic mineral substances, and gold m anu f a c tu r e s) are granted, upon sur- render of the exchange, "export vouchers" which give the exporter the right to import, in an amount equivalent to the value of the exchange surrendered, specified goods included in the prohibited list. These vouchers are negotiable and are sold at a prem ium in the free market. Exchange receipts accru ing f rom exports and services must be in the appropriate currency. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate. Capital The importation of fore ign capital in the fo rm of fore ign currency or in industrial, fa rm ing, or mining machinery and equipment is freely permitted. Such capital, however, must be registered and the foreign exchange imported must be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate, if the investor wishes to retain the right to re-export the capital or to remit profits. Foreign cash credits granted to persons domiciled in Colombia may, subject to registration, en joy the same rights provided the time for their reimbursement is not less than one year and the interest does not exceed 8 per cent annually. Transfers of capital abroad require prior approval, wh ich is au toma t ica l ly granted if the capital invest- ment has been properly registered. Transfers of capital are subject to a 3 per cent stamp tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 109 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) Buying 2.2855 (89% at Ps$1.95 and Ps$2.50) Exports of coffee. 2.50 All other exchange proceeds. (pesos per U.S. dollar) Selling at 2.51 Official payments, including imports for use or consumption by the organizations concerned. All other permitted imports2 not payable with "export vouchers" (see note, below). Certain invisibles, e.g., students' essential expenses up to specified limits. 2.56 (Ps$2.51 plus Reduced Stamp Tax of 2% at Ps$2.50) Certain foreign banking services and payments of certain organizations. 2.585 (Ps$2.51 plus Stamp Tax of 8% at Ps$2.50) Most commercial invisibles. Registered capital. 2.66 (Ps$2.51 plus Stamp Tax of 8% and Resident Tax of 3%, both at Ps$2.50) Other invisibles, e.g., travel abroad up to certain limits and additional transfers to make up the cost of aviation courses. No te: Other effective buying and selling rates based on the official rates of Ps$2.50 and Ps$2.51 plus a free market premium arise f rom the "export voucher" system (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). These rates apply to minor exports and nonessential imports. 1 As at December 31, 1952. The percentage at the Ps$2.50 rate is raised by 1V2 per cent each month. 2 These imports are subject to a 3 per cent stamp tax collected on the value in Colombian currency of each application for registration, at the rate of Ps$2.50. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1952 February 6 Payments for imports coming from or originating in Argentina would be authorized only if charged to the clearing account kept at the Central Bank of Argentina. February 15 Certain prohibited imports (lightweight automobiles, wines, radios, chinaware, and others) were permitted to be imported f rom countries with which Colombia has a balanced trade position (Canada and the United States), or with which it has trade agreements (Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, and the Federal Republic of Ge rmany ). February 25 The import of alcoholic beverages (except wines and absinthe) and cigarettes was declared free, without prejudice to existing local arrange- ments for the import, distribution, and sale of these articles. May 14 The Banco de la Republica authorized certain merchants, travel agencies, and hotels as its agents for the purchase of foreign exchange from foreign tourists and visitors. June 10 The extension of import registrations for ob ta in ing foreign exchange beyond the normal period of validity (approximately five mon ths) was suspended, with certain exceptions. July 7 Goods of Belgium-Luxembourg, German, Finnish, Danish, or Ecua- doran origin, purchased f rom third countries, were henceforth to be paid for through the clearing account for the country of origin. July 18 The National Congress issued Law No. 8 of 1952 concerning the import of capital, repeating the provisions of Extraordinary Decree No. 1625 of 1951, and exempting specific foreign investments from the capital tax for five years. August 1 The "export voucher" (comprobantes de exportation) system was introduced, under which exporters, upon the surrender to the Banco de la Republica of exchange accruing from the export of specified minor products at the Ps$2.50 rate, are granted the right to import an amount, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 111 equivalent to the value of the exchange surrendered, of specified articles included in the prohibited list. These "export vouchers" were made negotiable. August 18 The goods on the prohibited list of imports wh ich could be imported under the "export voucher" system (see August 1, above) were specified. August 17 A trade and payments agreement concluded with Italy entered into force. Current payments concerning merchandise trade and incidental expenses had to be made through the Italian Clearing Account at the Banco de la Republica, through which all imports of Italian origin, even if shipped from other countries, must be made. August 19 The United Kingdom was added to the list of countries f rom wh ich specified imports included in the prohibited list could be imported (see February 15, above ). September 15 The list of freely exportable produc ts and manu fac tu red articles for which "export vouchers" (see August 1, above) could be issued was expanded. October 22 Nonprecious metals and nonmetallic minerals were added to the list of exports which entitled exporters to negotiable "export vouchers" for the purpose of impor t ing specified imports included in the pro- hibited list. October 31 Decree No. 2730 was issued. Under its terms, exchange would not be authorized for the insurance of merchandise, which should be effec ted in Colombian currency with firms established in Colombia. November 7 Under Decree No. 2779 a stamp tax on drafts in payment of mer- chandise was abolished and a 3 per cent national stamp tax was created on the value in Colombian currency of each application for import merchandise. Public law institutions, persons who had been exempt, as well as registrations for the import of mach ine ry and equ ipment re- garded as foreign capital, were exempted from this tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS November 17 A payments agreement with Spain was signed under which all pay- ments (except consular fees) with Spain were to be effected through a central account in Colombia expressed in U.S. dollars. Provision was made that merchandise exported under the "export voucher" system must be na t iona l ly produced merchandise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Costa Rica on January 16, 1932, and since then has been subject to various modifications. The last ma jor revision was made on September 29, 1951, when the present International Payments Law was enacted and various exchange sur- charges applied to imports were abolished. There are virtually no restrictions applied to transactions eligible for the official exchange market, and the exchange controls are operated principally to ensure that such transactions pass through that market. All other exchange transactions are freely permitted through a free market where a higher exchange rate prevails. Foreign exchange derived from exports and certain invisibles must be surrendered in the official market, but the sale in the free market of a specified percentage of the proceeds of certain exports is permitted. Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 5.615 = US$1. Multiple rates arise f rom the coexistence of an official and a f ree market. The official rates are C 5.60 per US$1 for exports, (2 5.67 for essential imports. The effective selling rate in the free market, covering all other imports and almost all invisibles, is C 6.65 per US$1, and the use of that market for part of the proceeds of some exports results in an effective rate of C 6.25 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Banco Central de Costa Rica, and all official market transactions must be licensed by the Bank, which processes applications for payments in chronological order. Purchases and sales of off ic ial market exchange are conducted through the Banco Central or through authorized banks. Free market transactions are conducted through the commercial banks and private dealers independently of the Banco Central, but the Banco Central has the right to conduct operations on the f ree market with the object of trying to regulate the rate of exchange in that market. Prescription of Currency Most exchange transactions of Costa Rica are effected in U. S. dol- lars, and very few transactions are effected in other currencies. Costa 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Rica does not maintain any payments or c lear ing agreements with other countries. Imports and Import Payments An importer may order any goods f rom abroad and have them entered through the Costa Rican customs without any controls or restrictions. Control over imports arises only in regard to payments for essential imports at the C 5.67 rate. These imports consist of about 512 items included in a "List of Primary Needs" and represent approxi- mately 40 per cent of total imports. An exchange license f rom the Banco Central must be obtained to e f fect payments for imports at the off ic ial market rate. In general, these licenses are issued automatically and without delay. Payments for nonessential and luxury imports must be made through the f ree market, where the importer can purchase the necessary exchange w i th- out limitation. Under contracts signed w i th the Costa Rican Govern- ment, a fore ign-owned banana company can app ly the value of certain essential imports in payment of exchange comm i tmen ts a r is ing f rom the export of its products. Payments for Invisibles Invisibles wh ich are permitted at the official selling rate are govern- ment payments, earnings of registered fore ign capital invested a f t er January 30, 1933 (o ther than of foreign investments governed by special con trac ts), up to 10 per cent annually of the investment, and specified expenses of students who are taking specialized courses abroad and are registered with the Banco Central. These transactions require an exchange license, which is obtainable upon presentation to the Banco Central of an application w i th appropriate substantiating documents. Payments for all other invisibles are not controlled and are effected through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Central supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange for the official market. Export licenses f rom the Banco Cen tral are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and they are usually granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange pro- ceeds at the off ic ial rate. Exports of goods in domestic short supp ly may be restricted. There is a list of strategic materials, whose export to communist-dominated countries is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 115 Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the C 5.60 rate. However, for certain commodities, the Banco Central, following approval by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and the Ministry of Agriculture, can authorize exporters to retain part of the ir export exchange for sale in the free market, resulting in an effec t ive rate of about C 6.25 per US$1. Independent banana producers can sell in the free ma rket any exchange receipts in excess of US$1.10 per 100 pounds of bananas exported. Proceeds from Invisibles The only exchange receipts from invisibles required to be surrendered at the official rate are insurance indemnities covering imports, receipts of the Government and public entities, and sales of exchange by fo r- eign concessionnaires whose contract requires such sales in the off ic ial market. Receipts f rom other invisibles may be sold in the f ree marke t. Capital Exchange receipts f rom fore ign capital registered with the Banco Central must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate. Receipts f rom non- registered and repatriated capital may be sold in the free marke t. The granting of official market exchange for amortization of registered foreign capital is sub ject to exchange license by the Banco Central, which decides on the applications on a case-to-case basis and in the light of availability of exchange for t h at purpose. Certain fo re ign- owned investments are dealt w i th ind iv idua l ly under special contracts. Transfers of nonregistered capital may be effec ted without limitation at the f ree market rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (colones per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling 5.60 All exports except those at 0 6.25 rate. Certain invisibles. Registered capital. 6.25 (Approximate Average Rate) Certain exports by special authorization f rom the Banco Central. 5.67 Government payments. Essential im- ports. Students' expenses. Registered capital. 6.63 (Free Market Rate) All other receipts. 6.65 (Free Market Rate) All other payments. Changes during 1952 January Certain imports were sh if ted from the official to the free market. March 27 The Banco Central reduced the selling rate for U.S. dollars in the free market f rom 'C 7.00 to C 6.90 per US$1. April 17 The selling rate in the free market was fu r ther reduced to C 6.75 per US$1. June 21 The Free Export Exchange Law No. 1460 was promulgated, under wh ich the Banco Central, on the basis of a favorable decision by the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs and the Ministry of Agriculture, can grant special temporary au tho r iza t ions for the sale of part of the exchange proceeds of certain exports in the free market. July 23 The selling rate in the f ree market was fu r ther reduced to C 6.65 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Origin and Essential Features A 2 per cent exchange tax on transfers and payments abroad was established in Cuba in July 1925. On December 12, 1941, an additional 2 per cent on transfers and payments was established on remittances to former enemy countries.1 In November 1952, the original 2 per cent tax was waived for the exportation of specified foreign capital invested in Cuba and registered with the authorities. Payments to France and Spain are subject to exchange control under arrangements with these two countries; otherwise payments are not restricted. The proceeds of sugar exports must be partially surrendered. Exchange Rate System The par value is Cuban Peso 1 = US$1. The official rates are P 1.00 buying (and selling for certain capital t rans fe rs ), P 1.02 selling (including the 2 per cent tax on the exportation of fund s, securities, and me rchand ise ), per US$1. In addition, 1/64 per cent bank ex- change is charged to commercial banks on both the selling and buying of exchange by the National Bank. Commercial banks' exchange charged to the public is 1/10 per cent both ways. Administration of Control The Cuban Monetary Stabilization Fund, whose administration is entrusted to a committee consisting of the Minister of Finance, the President of the National Bank, and the Director of the Fund (designated by the President of the Republic with the advice of the Council of Ministers and approved by the Senate), operates the exchange controls directly or through the National Bank of Cuba. Prescription of Currency The following are the only requirements in respect of the prescrip- tion of currency: 1. In accordance with an agreement between France and Cuba, French exports to Cuba are settled in French francs through the account of the National Bank of Cuba with the Bank of France; 1 Effective January 13, 1953, Decree No. 173 abolished the fo rmer enemy property control and its fiscal charges, thus ending this additional 2 per cent tax. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS payments on account of Cuban sugar exported to France up to a quota limit of 200,000 tons are effected 70 per cent in French francs and 30 per cent in U.S. dollars. 2. Under the terms of a payments agreement with Spain, payments between Spanish and Cuban residents are effected through a clearing account expressed in U.S. dollars. 3. Payments to residents of China and North Korea must be made by bank t rans fer through a bank located in the United States. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions with respect to local currency accounts of nonresidents, which may be freely opened and operated, with the exception of the accounts of residents of Spain, of former enemy coun- tries (see foo tno te 1), and other countries for which the Stabilization Fund may establish restrictions. W i thd rawa ls f rom nonresident ac- counts are sub ject to the 2 per cent tax if funds are sent or used abroad. Imports and Import Payments Specified imports (e.g., wheat and wheat flour, tires, and tubes) are subject to licensing which is maintained essentially for registration and statistical purposes. Imports f rom France and Spain, in relation to wh ich exchange control is established by Cuban exchange control authorities due to in terna t ional agreements, can be cleared only upon the presentation of an au tho r i z a t ion f rom the Stabilization Fund. Payments are f r e e ly made on account of impor ts; however, payments on account of imports f rom fo rmer enemy countries, f rom countries w i th which Cuba has concluded payments agreements, or in respect to wh ich Cuba ma in ta ins exchange controls, are sub ject to approval by the Stabilization Fund. There is an exchange tax of 2 per cent on exchange paymen ts and t rans fe rs on account of imports and an additional 2 per cent on those payments in favor of fo rmer enemy countries (see footnote 1), except Austria and Italy. Payments for Invisibles The 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on all payments on account of invisibles, and an add i t ional 2 per cent is applied to payments in favor of fo rmer enemy coun tr ies (see foo tno te 1). Otherwise, pay- ments for invisibles are free ly permitted, but obligations concerning ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA 119 the method of payment app ly to ce r ta in payments (see section on Prescription of Currency, abov e ). A limit of $50 is placed on fo re ign or domestic currency notes that travelers, other than tourists, may take out of the country. Tourists are exempt f rom the 2 per cent tax on personal funds they carry when leaving the coun try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses except a routine one on tobacco, tobacco products, and by-products, which require a ce r t i f ica te f rom the Tobacco Control, ma in ly to guarantee their Cuban origin. Sugar and by-products also require certificates of the corresponding con- trolling agencies to ensure the in terna t ional distribution accorded. In addition, proof that the 2 per cent tax has been paid must be submitted for these exports and all other me rchand ise exported. This tax is recoverab le on proof that the exported me rchand ise was du ly landed at the port of destination and that the proceeds were credited to a bank account in Cuba. Through a bond given by the banks, the 2 per cent is not exacted if proof of credit in Cuba is presented within a certain period: 180 days for the United States, 240 days for other destinations, except exports of tobacco and its products to Spain, when up to 720 days are a l lowed, ow ing to the system of consignment shipments liquidated by the Spanish tobacco monopoly, when the goods are ac tua l ly sold. Thirty per cent of the exchange dollar proceeds of sugar and syrup exports must be sur- rendered for Cuban pesos at par. Certain goods, ma in ly na t ive ha rd- woods and scrap iron, are restricted when in short supply. There are no exchange control requ iremen ts a t tach ing to the pro- ceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange earnings f rom invisibles are f ree ly disposable. Capital A 2 per cent tax is charged on the exportation of capital and mer- chandise and on withdrawals of actual U.S. currency f rom banks in Cuba, even if made from U.S. dollar accounts, and on the exportation of securities. The 2 per cent tax is re funded when it is proved that the proceeds of the sale of the securities or merchandise have been returned to Cuba. Capital imported, when duly registered w i th the Stabilization Fund, for investment (1) in industrial, ag r icu l tu ra l, or other enterprises or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS unde r tak ings in Cuba, (2) in securities issued by such enterprises, or (3) in securities of the State of Cuba, the Cuban Bank for Ag r icu l tu ral and Industrial Development, or other similar institutions, is exempt from the 2 per cent tax on the export of capital. the Changes during 1952 March 4 Imports of tires and tubes became sub ject to license f rom M in is t ry of Commerce for statistical reasons (Decree No. 5187). April 21 Imports of wheat and wheat flour into Cuba became subject to license f rom the Director General of Supplies at the Ministry of Com- merce (Resolution 254 of April 15, 1952). November 20 Repatriations of specified foreign investments, provided they were registered w i th the authorities, were exempted f rom the 2 per cent tax (Law Decree No. 548). December 1 A Law Decree (No. 569) effective January 2, 1953 was pub l ished, cance l ing Law Decree No. 2679 of August 20, 1948, and giving powers to the Monetary Stabilization Fund to put exchange control measures into e f fec t, when circumstances indicated. December 17 A Law Decree (No. 591) was published, regulating the 2 per cent export tax and establishing the payment of this tax on the purchase of foreign currency and w i thd rawa ls f rom bank accounts in foreign currency, on the assumption that the ultimate destination is a foreign country. (Decree No. 928 of April 10, 1953 regulates this Law Decree No. 591.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECHOSLOVAKIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Czechoslovakia on October 31, 1931. The last ma jor revision took place on April 11, 1946. Authori- zations of imports and exports are determined within the economic plan. Foreign trade is organized on the basis of monopolistic trade organizations dealing in specific commodities. Exchange is granted for all authorized payments. Foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange Rate System The par value is Czechoslovak Korunas 50 = US$1. The official rates are Kes 49.85 buying, Kcs 50.15 selling, per US$1. Imports and Import Payments Au thor iza t ions of imports are determined within the economic plan. Exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad require licenses. Residents traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Kcs 500 mon th ly in domestic or foreign currency. Nonresidents traveling abroad may take with them Kcs 500 mon th ly in Czechoslovak banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorizations of exports are determined within the economic p lan. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Kcs 500 monthly in Czechoslovak bank- notes and coins. Capital Transfers of capital and the investment of foreign capital require approval. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1952 No significant changes took place during 1952. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Origin and Essential Features Exchange restrictions were first introduced in Denmark on Novem- ber 18, 1931. The degree of restrictiveness has varied in accordance with Denmark's economic position. Early in 1932, Denmark estab- lished central foreign exchange offices, whose tasks were not only to limit imports and regulate cap i tal transfers, but also to control the direction of imports in return for concessions under bilateral trade agreements. At the beginning of World War II, restrictions were extended to cover exports and invisibles, and at the end of the war, a system of tight restrictions was in force. A f t er a short period of relative relaxa- tion, restrictions were intensified on Ma rch 19, 1946. This policy was continued throughout 1947 and 1948. Since 1949, exchange restrictions have been relaxed continuously. Import restrictions are based essentially on balance of payments considerations; they are not applied severely to imports from EPU and some other countries. Some imports require advance deposits. Payments for invisibles are restricted to some extent, but near ly all current payments to EPU countries are unrestricted. As a general rule, all foreign exchange proceeds must be transferred to Denmark and surrendered. Export licenses are required for the export of the m a jor agricultural products and a range of industrial products. Capital movements are subject to control. The prescription of currencies for foreign payments and receipts is an integral part of the Danish exchange system. In general, pay- ments must be made either in the currency of the creditor country, or in Danish kroner through a nonresident account related to the country of residence of the foreign creditor. Exchange Rate System The par value is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The official rates are DKr 6.895 buying, DKr 6.920 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The exchange control is administered by the Danmarks National- bank, which is the central exchange control authority in Denmark. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 123 delegated to the banks and stock exchange brokers which are appointed authorized exchange dealers. Certain imports and exports require licenses issued by the Direc- torate for Supply or other authority. When an import license has been obtained f rom the Directorate for Supply, payment certificates— when certified by the customs authorities or the Directorate for Supply as proof of clearance —enable the authorized exchange dealers auto- matically to effect payment. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, outgoing payments must be made in the cur- rency of the recipient country, or in Danish kroner by crediting a nonresident account of an account holder of the country concerned. Payments to most countries are effected through the authorized ex- change dealers, but payments to Bulgaria, Colombia, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are centralized through the Danmarks Nationalbank. Payments from abroad must, as a general rule, also be made in the related foreign currency, or in Danish kroner by debiting a nonresident account of an account holder of the country concerned. Payments from countries classified as "Transferable Sterling Account" countries or as "Residual Group Account" countries in the United Kingdom exchange control system (see United Kingdom, section on Nonresident Accounts) may be received in sterling. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in Danish kroner of nonresidents are divided into four different types —Krone Accounts I, II, III, and IV —designated by nationality according to the country of residence of the account holder. These various types of accounts are held for the following purposes: 1. Krone Accounts I may be used only for settlement of current transactions between Denmark and the country where the account holder resides. These accounts are held by banks residing in foreign countries, shipping companies in Norway and Sweden, and others who have been given special permission. 2. Krone Accounts II may be used only for mak ing payments in Denmark for the settlement of current transactions with the country in question. New funds may be credited to the account only by trans- fer from a Krone Account I belonging to a bank with the same desig- nation of nationality. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 3. Krone Accounts III are established for insurance companies abroad for use in the settlement of insurance and reinsurance trans- actions between Denmark and the country where the insurance com- pany is domiciled. 4. Krone Accounts IV comprise all other foreign Krone Accounts. They are generally used for the crediting of amounts that cannot be authorized for t ran s fer abroad because of Denmark's foreign exchange position. Crediting and debiting of these accounts may, in principle, take place only with special permission of the Danmarks National- bank, except wth regard to certain specified transactions. Balances on Krone Accounts I, II, or III related to most countries can at any time be transferred abroad in the currency of the nationality of the account holder. Where transfers between these three types of accounts are allowed, they can usually be made only between accounts of the same designation of nationality, but transfers to or between Krone Accounts III of d i f fe rent na t iona l i ty are per- mitted. Imports and Import Payments The control of expend i tures for private imports is implemented by making certain goods subject to import licensing. Import licenses are required for a large number of goods if imported from non-EPU countries, but most imports f rom EPU countries and their associated territories1 are either f ree of license or licenses are f ree ly issued. In addition, about 10 per cent of the imports freed f rom import licensing require advance deposit payments. For a number of goods imported f rom EPU countries and their associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Monetary Area, or Yugoslavia, advance deposits varying between 90 and 135 per cent of the import value must be made with an authorized exchange dealer, which must t rans fer these funds to the Danmarks Nationalbank. If these goods are imported f rom other countries and therefore are subject to import licensing, advance deposits are also required. Three months a f ter the deposit has been made, two thirds of the deposit must be re funded to the importer; the remainder will be refunded twelve months a f ter the deposit is made. Until then, these deposits remain blocked and cannot be used as collateral for loans. 1 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, France, Federal Re- public of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, their overseas territories, and all territories of the Sterling Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 125 A valid payment authorization is required for all private imports. Payment certificates, when certified by the customs authorities as proof of c lea rance, are valid as an authority to pay for the corre- sponding goods and the related shipping expenses. However, for advance paymen ts be fo re clearance of the goods, the authorized dealers may e f fect payment if the impo r ter submits a statement prom is ing to p roduce the payment cer t if ica te later. Foreign exchange can be made ava i lab le only by the Danmarks Na t iona lbank or— inso far as paymen ts agreements do not prevent them f rom e f fec t ing fo re ign exchange transac t ions —by authorized exchange dealers. The fo rm or currency for such paymen ts is specified (see section on Prescription of Cu r rency, above ). Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts w h i ch are not for the import of goods require approva l. The au thor ized exchange dealers are permitted to au tho r ize most p aym en t s; on ly in special cases is approval f rom the Danmarks Na t iona lbank or f r om a special authority required. An annual ex- change a l loca t ion of DKr 7502 per adult is given for tourist travel to EPU coun tr ies and the ir associated territories, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugos lav ia, and of DKr 2,000 per adu lt for travel to each of the f o l l ow i n g: F in land, No rway, the Sterling Area, and Sweden. Travelers may take out of the coun try DKr 100 in domestic bank- notes without special au tho r iza t ion f rom the Danma rks Na t iona lbank. Residents may take out fo re ign banknotes only if they can prove that the amount was legally purchased f rom the Danmarks Na t iona lbank or f rom an authorized exchange dealer or can produce an export permit issued by the Danma rks Na t iona lbank. Nonresident travelers may take any amount of fore ign banknotes out of the country provided they dec la re that the amount was brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of m a j or agricultural products and of a range of indus tr ial produc ts require export licenses; these are issued by various au tho r- ities, depend ing on the kind of commodity. Cer ta in exports are made sub ject to restrictive licensing to sa fegua rd the f u l f i l lm e nt of bilateral obligations, to serve strategic purposes, to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of hard currency, and to secure the domestic supply of essential goods. Increased to DKr 2,000 for 1953. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Foreign exchange proceeds must be transferred to Denmark unless the Danmarks Nationalbank permits otherwise. Transferred foreign exchange must be offered for purchase to the Danmarks Nationalbank or to an authorized exchange dealer within eight days af ter receipt. If recipients show evidence to the Danmarks Nationalbank that they require fore ign exchange in that currency to cover their own obligations due within three months or to maintain their business interests abroad or for other purposes deemed necessary, the Danmarks Na t iona lbank may exempt them f rom the general obligation to surrender these exchange proceeds. The type of currency to be received for exports is prescribed (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Exporters of most commodities paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars obtain, against surrender of their dollar receipts, both Danish kroner at the official rate and a "title to import license" which grants the right to import, against payment at the official rate of exchange, otherwise restricted goods from EPU countries and their associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia in amounts equivalent to 10 per cent of their export proceeds. These import rights are transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived f rom invisibles must be trans- ferred to Denmark unless the Danmarks Nationalbank permits other- wise (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Transferred foreign exchange must be surrendered within eight days a f ter receipt to the Danmarks Na t iona lbank or to an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Travelers may bring into Denmark up to DKr 100 in domestic banknotes. Foreign banknotes may be f ree ly imported in any amoun t .. Capital Capital transfers, both outward and inward, must be authorized by the Danmarks Nationalbank, and applications are considered upon their individual merits. Applications for capital transfers to other European countries are normally allowed to the same extent that the country in question allows capital transfers to Denmark. Transfers to the United States and Canada resulting f rom inheritance, etc., are normally approved up to DKr 25,000 if the beneficiaries are U.S. or Canadian residents or Danes who have lived abroad for the past seven3 years. 8 As from January 24, 1953, only six years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 127 Applications for Danish investments abroad normally are approved when these investments may, with reasonable certainty, lead to an increase in net foreign exchange earnings. Anyone receiving payment f rom abroad must, if the amount exceeds DKr 500, submit a report concerning this receipt to an authorized exchange dealer. If the authorized exchange dealer considers that the purpose of the payment reported is not of a current nature, settlement or payment can take place only af ter the Danmarks Nationalbank has given authorization. Applications for inward capital transfers for productive purposes are given sympathetic consideration. Danish or fore ign securities held in Denmark for the account of nonresidents may not be returned to the owner or custodian and may not be sold without special authorization f rom the Danmarks Na- tionalbank. Proceeds of the sale of securities be long ing to residents of foreign countries other than Norway, Sweden, and the Sterling Area are no rma l ly cred i ted to a blocked nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Proceeds of the sale in Denmark of Danish securities belonging to residents of Norway, Sweden, and the Sterling Area are normally released upon application to the Danmarks Nationalbank. Changes during 1952 January 17 The rules, according to wh ich the authorized exchange dealers were permitted without special au tho r iza t ion to t ran s fer to Danish citizens residing abroad (1) pensions, annu i t ies, and similar payments, (2) insurance amounts due, and (3) interest and d iv idends derived f rom foreign capital investments in Denma rk, were relaxed. Authorized exchange dealers were permitted to buy and sell Danish kroner against sterling and French f rancs in spot transactions with their foreign correspondents in the United Kingdom and France. Ex- isting rules for exchange transactions and the exchange rate margins remained unchanged. January 26 The range of commodities sub ject to export control was enlarged. March 1 Authorized exchange dealers were permitted to buy and sell Danish kroner against Swiss f r an cs in spot transactions with the ir fore ign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS correspondents in Switzerland. Existing rules for exchange trans- actions and the exchange rate margins remained unchanged. May 5 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods wh ich could be imported without import license f rom EPU countries and the ir associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Mone ta ry Area, and Yugoslavia. July 12 The annual exchange quota for tourists v is i t ing F in land and Sweden was increased f rom DKr 750 to DKr 2,000 for each coun try. Au tho r ized exchange dealers were perm i t ted to convert for non- residents (up to a maximum amount equal to DKr 200) one EPU currency into another, and to convert U.S. and C an ad i an do l lars into EPU currencies w i thout special au thor iza t ion f rom the Danma rks Na t iona lbank. August 6 Exporters of most commodities for wh ich payment is received in U.S. or Canad ian do l lars could ob ta in, against surrender of the do l lar proceeds, in addition to Danish kroner at the o f f ic ial rate and for an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their export proceeds, a "title to import license" gran t ing the right to import restricted goods from EPU countries and their associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Mone- tary Area, and Yugoslavia. These import rights were t rans fe rab le. August 11 The centralized purchase of grain was abolished. Grain could be imported without import license f rom EPU countries and their as- sociated territories, Finland, the Spanish Mone tary Area, and Yugoslavia. September 6 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods wh ich could be imported w i thout import license f rom EPU coun tr ies and the ir associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia. November 27 The amounts of the advance deposits in respect of certain imports, mainly piece goods and apparel, were reduced f rom a range of between 120 and 180 per cent of the import value to between 90 and 135 per cent. Watches could be imported w i thout advance deposits (see Third Annual Report on Exchange Res tr ic t ions, page 79). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 129 December 19 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods which could be imported without import license from EPU countries and their associated territories, Finland, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in the Dominican Republic on July 29, 1942. In February 1951, a system of import control was introduced, by which licenses, which take the form of "Recommenda- tions to Import", are required for all imports in order to ensure equitable distribution of goods received under quotas allocated to the Dominican Republic by supplying countries. A few special items are also subject to import licensing. There is an exchange licensing system, but this is not exercised in a restrictive manner. Certain exports are subject to export licensing. Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1 = US$1. U.S. dollar trans- actions between the Banco Central and other banks are effected at par. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at the par value subject to small banking commissions. Administration of Control Exchange licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy, and all payments abroad must be made through the authorized banks. "Recommendations to Import" are issued by an Import Control Office, while import licenses required for a few special items are issued by the government department concerned. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Prior approval of a "Recommendation to Import" is required for all imports. These import controls are designed to ensure equitable distri- bution and appropriate "end-use" of imports under quotas allocated to the Dominican Republic by supplying countries. Prior import licenses are also required f rom the Ministry of National Economy for imports of wheat and wheat flour, to ensure compliance with the provisions of the International Wheat Agreement. Imports of a few other special 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 131 items require import licenses issued by the government department concerned. Applications for exchange have to be submitted by the banks daily for approval by the Ministry of National Economy. This control is maintained for statistical purposes and is not exercised restrictively. Licenses are issued within 24 hours of filing applications. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which are issued within 24 hours of filing the application. There are no restrictions imposed on payments. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Export licenses are required for sugar and a few other special items, the re-export of articles imported, and exports whose composition or structure includes im- ported articles. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attaching to exchange receipts f rom invisibles and these are freely disposable. Capital There are no exchange control obligations attaching to capital receipts or payments. Changes during 1952 No significant changes took place during 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was established in Ecuador in 1932. In 1947 exchange surcharges went into effect, and in 1949 a system of com- pensation for minor exports, matching them against otherwise pro- hibited luxury imports, was established. The compensation rate was determined in a separate market. On December 1, 1950, the surcharges were eliminated and a new par value established. In February 1952 the compensation system was merged with the free market. Ecuador's present exchange system comprises a multiple exchange rate structure whkh arises from the coexistence of an official and a free market. Quantitative restrictions are not relied upon to restrain imports, although some commodities are prohibited. Exchange Rate System The par value is Sucres 15.00 = US$1. This rate applies to most exports, essential and semi-essential imports, registered private capital, and certain other specified transactions. Higher rates operate in a free market for exchange transactions related to selected minor exports, luxury imports, unregistered capital, and invisibles. Effective rates between the official and free market rates result from the "mixing" arrangements for exchange proceeds derived from exports of chemical products and the ad jus tment of the values used for the surrender of exchange derived from r ice1 and banana exports (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The authorities of the Central Bank of Ecuador control and super- vise the permitted transactions wh ich pass through the off ic ial market. All transactions wh ich do not qu a l i fy for the official market may enter the f ree market, and the proceeds of such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency In principle, exchange proceeds must be received in dollars, but b i la teral agreements with Chile, Colombia, France, the Federal Re- pub l ic of Germany, and Italy require payment through special dollar accounts at the central banks of the countries concerned. 1 A f ter January 30, 1953, the proceeds of rice exports had to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the official rate. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 133 Imports and Import Payments A prior import license is required for substantially all imports other than those representing foreign loans and those of certain foreign com- panies, but apart from prohibited imports, import licenses are, with a few minor exceptions, issued freely. Import licensing enables specified transactions to obtain the official market rate and ensures that taxes levied on imports are collected and that imports are restricted to per- missible goods. Imports are divided into three categories —essential (List A), semi-essential (List B ), and luxury (List C ) — and goods not included in these three classes are prohibited. Nevertheless, the Central Bank may authorize the importation of goods not included in the three categories. The granting of an import license, issued by the exchange depart- ment of the Central Bank, carries with it the right to the required foreign exchange. Legally, the Bank must act on the application within three days, stating the taxes—33 per cent on semi-essentials (List B) and 44 per cent on luxuries (List C ) —and any advance deposits which must be paid before the license is issued. The Central Bank will issue the import permit as soon as the importer has paid the specified taxes and made any advance deposits required. For luxury imports, foreign exchange to cover the import must be deposited with the Central Bank prior to the issuance of the import license. For imports of essential and semi-essential goods, the Central Bank has the power to impose prior deposits of local currency in certain circumstances, but this authority is not now exercised. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles are made through the free market and are not subject to control by the exchange control authorities. Certain invisibles can be paid for at the official rate but require an exchange license, to be obtained from the Central Bank which grants such licenses for contractual interest payments, amortization of loans, and other obligations abroad which are registered at the Central Bank; payments of dividends, profits, interest, and amortization on registered foreign investments up to a specified amount but not less than 12 per cent annually; indispensable payments and remittances of the Govern- ment and official entities; and foreign exchange required by persons taking specialized courses abroad provided that such persons register with the Central Bank and that the amounts do not exceed passenger fares, expense of travel, tuition, and specified amounts for living expenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exports and Export Proceeds All exports other than those of certain fore ign companies are sub- ject to license, issued by the Central Bank to ensure surrender of foreign exchange proceeds or their sale in the free market. Export licenses are issued a f t er application has been presented by the exporter and arrangements have been made either for the surren- der to the Central Bank of f ree ly convertible fore ign exchange, or for remittance through a payments agreement account —in both of which cases the official rate is applicable —or for the re turn of the exchange to Ecuador in cases where it is eligible for sale on the f r ee market. The official rate applies to most exports except petroleum, gold, and certain minor exports. In addition, banana exporters surrender exchange for a fixed amount per stem at the official rate. The ba lance is sold at the free market rate or transferred abroad. A similar m in imum surrender requirement applies to rice. A mixing arrangement also applies to exports of chemical products and medicines (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Most receipts f rom invisibles are sold through the f ree market and are not sub ject to control by the exchange control authorities. Capital Receipts of foreign capital may enter at the official rate if they are for approved purposes and registered at the Central Bank. Registered capital and earnings may be transferred at the off ic ial ra te (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The Central Bank may refuse to register capital. Capital which is not registered is free to enter through the free market in unlimited quantities. Foreign nonmonetary capital entering in the fo rm of machinery, tools, etc., is treated like foreign monetary capital and does not require a license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 135 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (sucres per t/wS. dollar) Buying Selling 15.00 Most exports,2 except petroleum, gold, so-called Panama hats, and certain minor exports. Requirements of foreign com- panies for actual operating costs. Regis- tered capital. 15.15 Essential and semi-essential imports. Government payments. Interest, divi- dends, and amortization on registered foreign capital. Approved expenses of students. 15.92 (60% at Sf 16 and 40% at Fluc- tuating Free Market Rate) Chemical products and medicines. 17.30 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Invisibles. Unregistered capital. Cer- tain minor exports. Gold exports. Ex- ports of so-called Panama hats. 17.40 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Luxury imports. Unregistered capital. Other invisibles. No te: In December 1950, the Central Bank entered the free market by establish- ing a buying rate of S/ 17.30 per US$1. In June 1952, the Central Bank started to sell in the free market at S/ 17.40 per US$1. Rates quoted by foreign exchange dealers fluctuate around the rates fixed by the Central Bank. Changes during 1952 February 28 The compensation system was abolished and mixing rates (applied to certain export proceeds) combining the official and compensation market rates in d ifferent proportions were abolished. The minor exports and luxury imports formerly sub ject to the compensation arrangements were transferred to the existing f ree market. April 30 It was announced that the Central Bank would negotiate exchange proceeds from so-called Panama hats exported through Cuenca 50 per cent at the official rate and 50 per cent at the f ree rate. May 8 The minimum price per stem which banana exporters are obliged to surrender to the Central Bank at the off ic ial exchange rate (except 2 Minimum fixed surrender prices have been set for banana and rice exports. The exchange corresponding to these minima must be sold at the official rate. The balance of the proceeds is sold in the f ree marke t, thus making additional "mixing" rates. However, any proceeds from exports of rice in excess of US$9.00 per qu in tal must be su r rende red to the Central Bank at the official rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS for exports sub ject to special agreements) was fixed at US$1.20 and US$1.50 for the periods June 1-September 30 and October 1-May 31, respectively, each year. May 17 A m in imum surrender requ irement at the off ic ial rate of US$3.00 for each qu in tal of rice (46 k i log rams) exported was established for exports up to 500,000 qu in ta ls. The ba lance of the proceeds is sold in the free market. July 17 Sixty per cent of the proceeds f r om exports of chemical produc ts and med ic ines had to be su r rende red to the Cen t ral Bank at the official rate of exchange. The ba lance of the proceeds is sold in the f ree marke t. October 22 An add i t ion al quota of 300,000 qu in ta ls of rice was allocated for export in the period August 1952-September 1953. A minimum of US$3.00 per qu in tal had to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the o f f ic ial ra te, as we ll as any excess of the f .o .b. price over US$9.00 per qu in ta l. The ba lance continued to be sold in the f ree marke t .3 November 24 The total proceeds f r om exports of so-called Panama hats f rom any pa rt of the coun t ry were assigned to the f ree market. The Central Bank was given first pr ior i ty to buy th is exchange at the free market rate. 3 This special arrangement for rice exports was changed a f ter January 30, 1953. See footnote 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Origin and Essential Features A system of exchange control was initially introduced in Egypt on September 28, 1939. Restrictions were placed on nonessential goods in 1952, and ind iv idual licensing of imports was applied to all imports as f rom October 7, 1952. In addition, considerable modifications of the prescription of currency and the me thods of settlement for interna- tional transactions were introduced in December 1952.1 Bas ica l ly a un i tary exchange rate system operates in Egypt. How- ever, a tax of 10 per cent is charged on certain t ran s fe rs abroad on account of specified invisibles. Settlements on a c count of merchand ise t ran sac t ions and invisibles must be effected in the prescribed manner and currency. A restrictive list was issued on December 15, 1952, and amended on Ma rch 3, 1953; it inc luded commodities wh ich may be imported f rom countries other than Sterling Area countries, dollar area countries, or payments agreements countries, if payab le in Egyptian pounds through an Export Accoun t. Licenses are issued freely for this purpose. Banks are authorized to effect certain invisible transactions without prior exchange control approval. Other invisibles need prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Exchange is generally made avail- able for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Exchange earnings of Egyptian residents, except a few cases con- cerning some exports, must be surrendered and sold to authorized banks at the official rate of exchange. Most capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are sub ject to individual licensing. Exchange Rate System The par value is Egyptian Pound 1 = US$2.87156. Basically, the exchange rate system is unitary and cross rates are orderly. However, a tax of 10 per cent is charged on exchange allocated for travel, main- tenance remittances where the beneficiary is either an Egyptian 1 There were also important changes in January and February 1953. These are outlined in the note at the end of this survey. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS national or a foreigner holding an Egyptian residence visa, and revenue remitted to Egyptian nationals residing permanently abroad. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Egypt and the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan,2 but each of the two territories has its separate exchange con- trol system. Administration of Control Exchange control in Egypt is supervised by the Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange set up by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instruc- tions of the Minister of Finance and Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of F inance and Economy. The technical work of the Exchange Control is pe r fo rmed, under the supervision and the instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles must be effected in the prescribed manner and currency. They are made, depending upon the country involved and the type of transac- tion, in one of the following ways: (1) in the currency of the country of the benef ic iary, (2) where appropr ia te, in sterling through an Egyptian T rans fe rab le Accoun t, (3) in Egyptian pounds to a non- resident account of the same monetary area, (4) in Egyptian pounds through an Export Account, (5) in any other currency or manner approved by the Central Exchange Control. The exchange control authorities allow the export of certain commodities only against hard currencies. The prescription of currency in respect of export proceeds allows for alternative methods of settlement. As a general rule, transit trade and re-export transactions must be settled on the basis of the same currency being paid and received. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. Nonresident (o rd ina ry) accounts named according to the country or monetary area in wh ich the holder resides, except that in the 2 This was changed in 1953; see note at the end of this survey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 139 case of the United States, Canada, Switzerland, and Portugal the nonresident status is granted only to nationals of these coun- tries actually residing in their own country: Ordinary nonresi- dent accounts may be free ly credited with transfers from non- resident accounts of the same monetary area. 2. Export Accounts: These accounts can be credited w i th (a) pay- ments in respect of goods imported into Egypt under import permits s t ipu la t ing settlements in Egyptian pounds through an Export Accoun t; (b) transfers f rom other Export Accounts; and (c) amounts specifically approved by the Central Exchange Control. Balances on such accounts may be u t i l ized for (a) pay- ments to residents of Egypt in settlement of the value of goods exported f rom Egypt to countries other than certain specified c o u n t r i e s ;3 (b) payments to residents for services, etc.; and (c) t rans fe rs to other Export Accounts. The "export pound" wh ich is reported to be regularly negotiated outside Egypt was at a discount of about 9 per cent at the end of December 1952. 3. Blocked Accounts: These are credited with any payment to a nonresident which is not remittable under the exchange control regulations and not creditable to Provisionally Blocked Accounts (see be low ). These accounts may be f ree ly debited (a) with amounts up to LE 1,000 per annum for living expenses of the account holder in Egypt, (b) for investments in Egyptian Govern- ment securities and shares of companies established in Egypt (not redeemable on a date earlier than 10 yea rs ), (c) for subscrip- tion to increases of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from shares mentioned above under (b) can be credited to an appro- pr ia te ordinary nonresident account. 4. Provisionally Blocked Accounts: These are opened for residents of certain countries (Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Por- tugal, and United States) when funds due to them in respect of capital or revenue are temporarily non transferab le because of a shortage of the corresponding currencies. Balances on these accounts are used for the same purposes as those indicated above under Blocked Accounts, 3 ( b) and 3 ( c ), and also for living expenses of an account holder in Egypt and allowances to his 8 These specified countries are Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, French Mone- tary Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Italian Monetary Area, Lebanon, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Sterling Area, Switzerland, United States and American Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS relatives in Egypt, for transfers in the fo rm of monthly allow- ances in cases of jus t i f ied needs, and for transfers to other pro- visionally blocked accounts related to the same monetary area. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to individual licensing. Licenses for imports f rom countries with wh ich Egypt has payments agreements 4 are f ree ly issued. No licenses are issued for nonessential imports f rom Sterling Area territories. Licenses are granted for importation of essentials from the dollar area. Essentials and semi-essential goods may be imported through an Export Account. A restrictive list issued on December 15, 1952 (and amended on March 3, 1953) includes commodities which may be imported f rom countries other than Sterling Area countries, dollar area countries, or payments agreements countries, if payab le in Egyptian pounds th rough an Export Accoun t. Licenses are issued free ly for this purpose. Payments for Invisibles Banks are au thor ized to effect certain invisible transactions without prior exchange control approval. Other invisibles require prior ap- proval of the Central Exchange Control. Exchange is generally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Expenses for travel, fam i ly maintenance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations are usually approved by the Central Exchange Control up to specified quotas. Remittances for travel and maintenance on behalf of Egyptian residents, either nationals or foreigners, are subject to a 10 per cent tax. Persons leaving Egypt can take with them Egyptian banknotes in amounts not exceeding LE 20 or the equivalent in fore ign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require individual licenses. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in six months from the date of dispatch of the goods, and surrendered. Egyptian exporters selling their long-staple cotton of specified categories other than those included in the annual import quota established by the U.S. authorities, or exporting non-dollar com- modities for dollars, are given p re fe ren t ial trea tment regard ing the use 4 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Italy, Lebanon, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 141 of 30 per cent of their dollar earnings accruing from this source for imports of specified goods. However, the total of the export proceeds must first be repatriated and surrendered, a f ter wh ich application may be made for the 30 per cent in import rights. Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to o f fer to author- ized banks for sale at the o f f ic ial exchange rate all proceeds payable in fore ign currencies w i th in one mon th f rom the date of their collec- tion abroad or their t rans fer to Egypt. Persons arr iv ing in Egypt f rom abroad can br ing in Egyptian banknotes in amoun ts not exceeding LE 2 0. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside Egypt requ ire an ind iv idual license which is not no rma l ly granted. The import and export of securities and s im i lar items in to and f r om Egypt requ ire licenses. The import and export of secur i t ies and s im i lar items into and f r om Egypt by or on beha lf of nonres iden ts, and t rans fe rs of securities in Egypt f rom one nonresident to another, require approval of the Cen- tral Exchange Control unless such residents belong to the same mone- ta ry area. Exchange is not gran ted for the remittance abroad of funds due to nonresidents f rom the sale of their securities in Egypt; such proceeds, as well as any payment of a capital nature to a nonresident wh ich is not permitted under the exchange control regulations, must be credited to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). T rans fe rs abroad are permitted in payment of (1) securities drawn or ma tured in accordance with the original terms of issue, (2) the proceeds of income items in respect of securities quoted on the Egyptian Bourse on account of customers resident abroad if made to the country of residence of the owner of the securities, and (3) matured mortgages. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 per family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of cap i tal or income —may be released f rom their assets in Egypt to foreign residents who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above th is l im it is credited to a Blocked Accoun t, w i th the exception of Sw i tze r land and the Sterling Area, where capital t ran s fe rs may exceed LE 5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1952 August A tax of 10 per cent on funds transferred abroad for specified invisibles was introduced. October 7 The system of individual import licensing was extended to all imports. December 12 The arrangements for settlements through nonresident transferab le Export Accounts were considerably extended. Note: Several important changes were made in the exchange system in the opening months of 1953. The main changes were as fo l lows: On January 13, the Ministry of Finance and Economy issued in- structions permitting Egyptian manu fac tu re rs of textiles and yarn to export their products and use the fo re ign exchange proceeds provided that the currencies were not those of countries w i th which Egypt has payments agreements. As f rom January 29, Egyptian exports to Canada, the American Monetary Area, and the Sterling Area of cotton and other goods not subject to export restrictions could be paid for 50 per cent in dollars or sterling and the balance in Egyptian "export pounds" or in goods permissible under the "export pound" arrangements, but such goods had to be the product of the exporting country. On February 9, the proportions were changed so that 75 per cent of the total payment could be made in Egyptian "export pounds." On February 10, under the terms of an agreement with the Nether- lands, it became possible for trade between the two countries to be conducted through the use of Egyptian "export pound" accounts, balances on which could be f ree ly transferred between Netherlands residents in respect of whose exports to Egypt the Egyptian authorities would freely grant import licenses. E f fec t ive February 11, capital transfers between Egypt and the Sudan became subject to limitations, and exchange control was estab- lished over payments for current transactions. On February 28, de ta i ls of a re ten t ion quo ta a r rangement were announced. Under this a r rangemen t, persons who export goods not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 143 subject to restriction regard ing the currency of payment and who surrender to an authorized bank the fu ll proceeds of the export in Canadian or U.S. dollars or pounds sterling are credited on memo- randum accounts, named Import Entitlement Accounts, for 100 per cent of the proceeds of exports of ya rn and cloth and 75 per cent of the proceeds of other items. The balances on these accounts, which are transferable, entitle the holder to receive import licenses and to purchase exchange from an authorized bank in payment of such im- ports. These rights are automatically canceled if not utilized by the end of the third calendar month fo l low ing that in wh ich the export proceeds were sold to an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was established in Ethiopia on October 31, 1942. A significant revision occurred on September 11, 1949, when the con- trols were broadened and various restrictions were introduced. The exchange system is characterized by exchange licensing for all pay- ments, surrender of all foreign exchange receipts, and prescription of currencies for exchange payments and receipts. Restrictions are exer- cised on payments for nonessential imports and for invisibles and capital transactions. Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.48 buying, Eth$2.53 selling, per US$1; the o f f ic ial sell- ing rate represents a spread of more than 1 per cent f rom the par va lue. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be effec ted through the State Bank of Ethiopia. All paymen ts abroad and exports are sub ject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a Depart- ment of the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments outside Ethiopia must be effected in fore ign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient, and foreign exchange f r om exports must be received in the appropriate currency, usua l ly that of the country of final destination or, for certain commodities, only in hard currency. Ethiopia has payments agreements w i th two coun- tries (Israel and N o rw a y ), and all exchange transac t ions w i th these countries are conducted through special accounts. Imports and Import Payments There are no import licenses, but paymen ts outside E th iop ia for imports require exchange licenses, wh ich are granted only for specified essential goods and var ious consumer goods. Exchange licenses for payments in ha rd currencies l are gran ted, on the whole, on ly for 1 The hard currencies for this purpose are ma in ly U.S. do l lars, Swiss francs, and D j ibou ti francs. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 145 essential goods which cannot be obtained in soft currency areas; how- ever, there are certain imports to which this criterion is not applied. Application for a license must be made prior to the arrival of the shipping documents or goods. Exchange licenses for imports are no rma l ly issued, on the condition that letters of credit are opened. However, in certain special circum- stances, some firms are allowed cash-against-documents treatment. Exchange is made available to the app l icant as soon as he receives a license. In accordance with the terms of the exchange license, an importer is permitted to make paymen ts to a country only in the currency of that country (or monetary a rea ). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Licenses for invisibles connected with trade transactions are allowed on the same basis as licenses for the goods to which they relate. Persons traveling abroad are granted foreign exchange in the currency of the country of destination on a case-to-case basis. They may take with them a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exchange for educa- tion is granted within reasonable limits in each case. Exchange for such purposes as charity and maintenance is granted in moderate amounts to residents not permanently domiciled in Ethiopia for remit- tances to their own country. The transfer of "reasonable" amounts of dividends and similar cu r rent earnings due to nonresidents is permitted in the currency of the original investment. Family maintenance remit- tances are usua l ly limited to Eth$105 per month, but higher amounts may be sent by fo re ign employees in Ethiopia under special contracts. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. In applying for a license, an exporter must indicate the amount of foreign exchange he expects to receive. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through the customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that all foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the State Bank of Ethiopia, and that export proceeds are received in exchange appropriate to the country of destination of the goods (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In due time, exporters must surrender at the official rate the promised amount of foreign exchange. The proceeds of exports of co f fee and goatskins to any destination must usually be obtained in U.S. dollars, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS but exports of these goods against the receipt of so ft currencies are permitted from time to time. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. All foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its subsequent use or re-export is subject to license. Capital All foreign exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. All payments abroad on account of capital are subject to individual exchange licenses. Foreign exchange is granted for repayment abroad of matured capital obligations of tem- porary residents. Other types of capital transfers are handled on a case-to-case basis. Changes during 1952 During 1952, the proportion of exchange licenses permitting dollar payments was increased. September 15 Eritrea was federated with Ethiopia, and the exchange control system of Ethiopia was applied to Eritrea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Finland on October 26, 1939. Among the restrictions on current transactions, the licensing of imports as the basis for exchange allocation is the central factor. Furthermore, through the prescription of the currency of payment, the currency composition of outward payments is adjusted to that of exchange receipts available f rom exports and other sources. Also, import licens- ing, like the licensing of exports, serves to ensure that actual trade conforms to Finland's trade agreements. Exchange Rate System The par value is Markkas 230 = US$1. The official rates are Fmk 229 buying, Fmk 231 selling, per US$1. Finland operates basically a single rate structure with the ma in tenance of parity values and orderly cross rates. However, since June 3, 1952, the commercial banks have been permitted, within the rules approved by the Bank of Fin- land, to buy and sell travelers' exchange at higher rates. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, with the assistance of exchange dealers (commercial banks) authorized for this purpose. Foreign exchange can be purchased from only the Bank of Finland or the authorized exchange dealers. However, the latter, but not the Bank of Finland, can deal in travelers' exchange at other than off ic ial rates. The current administration of import licensing is handled by an office in the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Bu reau, wh ich is presided over by a Licensing Committee composed of government officials. Prescription of Currency The comprehensive licensing of exports and imports ensures that the methods of payment conform to the provisions of existing payments agreements and serves to protect Finnish exchange reserves. Sterling is a key currency in Finnish trade with western countries, and Finland has the facilities of the Sterling Transferable Account arrangements (see United Kingdom, section on Nonresident Accoun t s ). 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Nonresident Accounts A system of four types of nonresident accounts is operated under the control of the Bank of Finland. (1) For exchange control purposes, exchange markka accounts are equivalent to foreign exchange and may be freely transferred abroad to the country and in the currency of the account holder. (2) Inland markka accounts are not transferable abroad, and the debiting of these accounts cannot substitute for pay- ment in foreign exchange from abroad. Certain expenditures in Finland may, however, be defrayed f rom inland accounts, and transfers are allowed between nonresidents, irrespective of country or monetary area. These accounts are credited with those current payments whose transfer abroad is not allowed. (3) Blocked accounts are not trans- fe rab le abroad, nor can they, without the consent of the Bank of Fin- land, be transferred between nonresidents. Certain expenditures in Finland may, however, be defrayed f rom blocked accounts. They are credited with noncurrent payments. (4) Travel accounts are transfer- able between foreign banks but they cannot be transferred abroad. They arise out of the remittance to Finland of Finnish banknotes bought by foreign banks and can only be used by foreign banks for the sale of Finnish travel exchange to foreign travelers.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports are restricted by subjecting all imports to licensing. Licenses are allocated to individual importers primarily on the basis of past imports, but to some extent the past record of importers with regard to the price and quality of imports is taken into account. Exchange in the form prescribed in the license is normally granted without delay.2 Special import rights were, until December 31, 1952, available to exporters surrendering export proceeds in U.S. dollars or free Swiss f rancs (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles Payments not arising out of imports are subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland in each case, and all contracts involving payments 1 Effective February 1, 1953, the remittance to Finland of Finnish banknotes was prohibited. Instead, foreign banks were entitled to deal, through the Finnish commercial banks, in Finnish travel exchange at rates higher than the official rates. 2 However, as of January 1953, the Licensing Bureau is also entitled to issue "terminal licenses" which enable immediate importation of licensed goods on condition that payment is made only at a later date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 149 to nonresidents must be submitted to the Bank for approval. Royalties and interest, dividends, and other income f rom capital owned by non- residents must as a rule be paid into an in land ma rkka account and cannot be transferred abroad (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). However, if the Bank of Finland has approved a contract prov id ing for t rans fer abroad, exchange is granted automatically for the individual payments. Residents trave l ing to European countries are au toma t ica l ly allo- cated exchange at the off ic ial rate up to certain amounts. In addition, a special system was instituted on June 3, 1952, establishing higher rates for travelers' exchange wh ich can be purchased over and above the allocations at the off ic ial rates mentioned above. A traveler may take w i th him Fmk 30,000 3 in banknotes or he may expend pa rt or all of this amount in purchasing fore ign exchange f rom commercial banks at higher rates, as indicated in the fo l low ing tabu la t ion: Travel Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (markkas per foreign currency unit) New York Montreal London Stockholm Copenhagen Oslo Buying Selling Rate Rate 340 355 340 355 910 940 62 65 44 46 43 45 Paris Brussels Amsterdam F rank fu r t /M Zurich Buying Selling Rate Rate 95 1 6.50 6.70 84 88 77 80 78 81 Such export of notes or purchase of fore ign exchange is limited to one jou rney per person per month .4 The commercial banks acquire the foreign exchange for such sales by purchas ing f r om fore ign travelers in Finland travel exchange at the rates indicated in the above t abu l a- tion. The amount that may be bought f rom a fore ign traveler can be no larger than the amount that he has been allowed by the exchange regulations of his own country to take out f rom that country. Travel tickets are completely independent of the travel exchange system; they are sold for markkas at the off ic ial rate of exchange. 8 E f fec t ive February 1, 1953, the amount of Finnish banknotes which could be taken out was reduced to Fmk 10,000 per tr ip. On the other hand, the traveler was entitled to purchase foreign exchange at h igher rates up to an amount equivalent to Fmk 50,000 per tr ip. 4 See footnote 3. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, and all foreign exchange acquired through exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Through the licensing of exports and the control of the currency of payments, the authorities are able to assure that exports conform to Finnish trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of exchange surrender requirements. The authorized banks and a few large export and shipping firms, as well as insurance companies, are allowed to ma in ta in their own working balances in foreign exchange under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Under a system of preferential import rights, exporters who secured payment in U.S. dollars or in f ree Swiss francs were entitled to receive licenses for imports against payment in these currencies to the amount of 10 per cent of the exports. This arrangement, which dates back to February 1, 1950, did not involve any exception to the surrender requirement, and licenses for imports had to be applied for in the ordinary way. Normally, a condition for the granting of import licenses was that the commodities in question were intended for use in the applicant's own business. The importer was, however, allowed to sell the goods imported, subject to the ordinary price control regu- lations. In addition to exporters, organized import agents of foreign firms were granted similar preferential import rights to the extent of 20 per cent of the ir earned and surrendered commissions in foreign exchange. However, these special import rights arrangements were abolished December 31, 1952. Proceeds from Invisibles All fore ign exchange acquired must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an au thor ized exchange dealer. Persons may bring in a maximum of Fmk 30,000 5 per month in Finnish banknotes. Capital Each outward payment on capital account is subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. The fo l low ing capital transfers abroad, however, are provided for by agreement with other countries: (1) Inheritances of Swiss and U.S. citizens may, to a "reasonable extent", be transferred abroad, and Swiss nationals giving up residence in Finland may be allowed to take out capital f rom Finland. (2) Agreements with Den- mark and Norway provide for cap i tal t rans fe rs on a compensation 8 Effec t ive February 1, 1953, this amount was reduced to Fmk 20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F INLAND 151 basis, but these agreements are seldom operative owing to the lack of Finnish capital claims on Denmark and Norway. Banknotes The special arrangements applying to transactions in travelers' exchange include arrangements for banknotes ( for details see sections on Nonresident Accounts and Payments for Invisibles, above). Changes during 1952 January 10 The exemption of round t imber f rom export licensing lapsed. March The arrangement by which import licenses were freely issued for certain goods, provided payment was to be made in specified "soft" currencies, was discontinued (see Third Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, p. 92). May 5 The allowance of exchange at the official rate which could be pro- vided by the authorized banks without reference to the Bank of Fin- land for travel in Austria, the Sterling Area, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. was reduced. June 3 A system of higher exchange rates for travelers' exchange was introduced. October 1 The special import rights of import agents were reduced in scope f rom the equivalent of 40 per cent to 20 per cent of commissions surrendered in foreign exchange. December 1 The allowance of exchange at the official rate which could be pro- vided by the authorized banks without reference to the Bank of Fin- land for travel in Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Netherlands, and Norway was reduced. December 81 The system of special import rights for certain exporters and import agents was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in France on September 9, 1939. A general overhauling and codification of the system was effected in July 1947. Changes in the system of exchange rates on January 26, 1948 and October 17, 1948 resulted in the establishment of two rates for "convertible" currencies and one rate for other currencies; but on September 20, 1949 a un i fo rm rate system was established. In addi- tion, restrictions have been modified on several occasions in the post- war period. Almost all imports are subject to individual licensing, which is restrictively applied to "hard" currency imports. Payments for au- thorized imports are automatically allowed, subject to the presentation of supporting documents and provided the method of payment is in accordance with the regulations. Invisibles relating to trade transac- tions are allowed f ree ly where the basic trade transaction has been approved. Other invisible payments are either permitted freely or subjected to varying degrees of restriction according to the category of the invisible and the currency involved. Residents are obliged to collect and surrender amounts due f rom nonresidents wh ich represent the proceeds of the sale of goods and services. Varying essentially according to whether or not the currency is considered "hard", certain percentages of export and other specified proceeds are allowed to be retained and utilized for specified purposes. Exchange Rate System Since Janua ry 1948 France has not maintained any official par value in terms of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. In practice, however, exchange rates in France are stable and of an essentially un i ta ry char- acter, with orderly cross rates. There are two types of exchange rate: 1. "Free" market rates for authorized transactions in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The rate for the U.S. dollar re- mained between fr 349.50 and fr 350 dur ing 1952. Although exchange rates of currencies dealt in on the "free" market are formed through the interplay of the demand and supply mechanism, only those persons who have a general or in- d iv idual permit f rom the Exchange Office can buy exchange through the intermediary of the "free" exchange market and 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 153 only authorized banks are permitted to operate on the "free" market as intermediaries between the ultimate seller and buyer of specified currencies. As the demand for and supply of "free" currencies are subject to the control exercised by the authorities over exchange transactions, the formation of "free" market rates is affected by the decisions of the French trade and exchange control authorities and the intervention of the latter in the exchange market. 2. "Official" exchange market rates for currencies * dealt in by the Exchange Stabilization Fund and the authorized banks have (with the exception of the Italian lira) their rates determined monthly on the basis of the so-called reference rate (i.e., an average of the "free" market dollar rate in France) and the respective parities for the other currency in terms of the U.S. dollar. This monthly rate is altered only if changes of at least 2 per cent occur in the U.S. dollar in the "free" markets in France. Should such changes be 5 per cent or more, the rates in question are correspondingly adjusted the next day. The rate for the Italian lira is fixed monthly in the "official" market on the basis of the current quotation in France and Italy for the U.S. dollar. Adjustments are made on a basis similar to that for the other currencies in this market. The rates of other currencies are not quoted by the Exchange Sta- bilization Fund; they are published by the Bank of France on the basis of either their quotations in London and New York and the quotation of the dollar rate in France, or the official quotations of the respective foreign central banks. These rates are published mainly in order to determine the equivalent in French francs of payments expressed in such currencies, since practically all settlements between France and countries whose currencies are not mentioned in the two groups above are, as a general rule, effec ted through appropriate non- resident accounts in French francs. Exchange Control Territory Continental France (including Corsica), the Principality of Monaco, the Territory of Saar, French Overseas Departments,2 the Protec- 1 These are the currencies of Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Federal Re- public of Germany, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and Yugo- slavia, as well as sterling and leading Sterling Area currencies. 2 Algeria, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, Reunion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS torates of Morocco and Tunisia, French Overseas Territories 3 and the Associated States of Cambodia, Laos, and V ie tnam constitute the French Franc Area. Most payments agreements relate to settlements between the French Franc Area as a whole and the other country con- cerned. Restrictions between the various territories of the French Franc Area are either not applied or are applied only to minor parts of the Area, although such territories are forma l ly independent ex- change control units, each with its own local exchange control. The foreign exchange reserves of the French Franc Area are managed centrally and the local currencies of these territories are fixed in relation to the French f ranc. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance is gran ted extensive au thor i ty in the field of exchange control. The Exchange Office (O f f ice des Changes), which is administered by an Administration Committee and by a Director designated by the Minister of Finance, carries out French exchange control policy. The Exchange Office issues import licenses in accord- ance with specific and general directions fo rmu la ted by various gov- ernmental bodies. The Exchange Office is subject to the control of a financial controller appointed by the Minister of Finance. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Finance on the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of France. Prescription of Currency General exchange control regulations and, in specific cases, indi- vidual decisions of the Exchange Office, prescribe the currency and fo rm in wh ich settlements between residents and nonresidents may be effec ted, usually payment to or f rom an appropriate nonresident account in French francs, and /or the currency, of the country of resi- dence of the fore ign beneficiary or debtor. For international payments subject to bilateral trade and payments agreements, the provisions of these agreements determine the prescription of currencies. In all other cases, the country of origin or destination of the goods or services constitutes the basis for the determination of specific provisions appli- cable to the prescription of the currency. 8 French West Africa, French Equatorial A f r ica, Trust Territories of Cameroon and Togo, Madagascar and its dependencies, Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, French Establishments in India, New Caledonia and dependencies, French Establishments in Oceania, and the Condominium of New Hebrides. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 155 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in French francs are classified either as (1) "free f ranc" accounts, balances on which derive either f rom f ranc proceeds of the sale of currencies considered as convertible, f rom transfers f rom other nonresident accounts in "free francs," or from authorized credits; or (2) nonresident accounts in French francs re- lated to a par t icu lar country or monetary area. These accounts (other than "blocked" or "capital" accoun ts) are convertible into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder, provided that the currency in question is one of the currencies dealt in on the "free" or "official" exchange market .4 Balances on all other nonresident accounts 5 are no rma l ly not convertible. All debits and credits to nonresident accounts are sub ject to control. These accounts can be f ree ly credited or debited in connection with specified transactions, such as the cred i t ing of any account with the proceeds of sale of convertible currenc ies on the "free" market, or t rans fe rs f rom "free f ranc" accounts, or the crediting of an appro- p r ia te nonres ident account with the proceeds of the sale of the cur- rency related to the same coun try as the account, or transfers between accounts related to the same country or monetary area, or any pay- ments in the French f ranc area, inc lud ing paymen ts on account of merchandise transactions. Other credit or debit operations on non- resident accounts are subject to approval. Imports and Import Payments Most impor ts are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Those f r ee of ind iv idual licensing may be divided into the fo l low ing groups: (1) goods l ibera l ized up to specified quotas (this group is of limited im- po r tance) ; (2) goods wh ich are reimported, sub ject to various l im i ta- tions, and a list of goods which includes such items as commercial samples, items brought in by diplomats, and a few other goods; (3) specified equipment goods, raw materials, and semifinished products for export-producing industries, imported under the so-called "10 per cent Equipment" arrangement; (4) in certain cases, goods imported 4 At present, this applies to balances on nonresident accounts related to the following countries or mone tary areas: Belgium-Luxembourg, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Italy, Mexico, Ne ther lands Monetary Area, Norway, Portu- guese Mone tary Area, Sterling Area, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, and Yugoslavia. 5 These are accounts related to Argentina, Austria, Bolivia, B raz i l, Bu lga r ia, Chile, Ecuador, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Paraguay, Poland, Spanish Monetary Area, Syria, Tangier, U.S.S.R., and Uruguay. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS under the EFAC arrangement (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). The fo l low ing groups of imports are restricted through ind iv idual licensing but are accorded liberal trea tmen t: (1) specified raw ma- terials and other goods needed for the production of goods to be exported; (2) imports f rom OEEC countries; (3) imports f rom other countries w i th wh ich France ma in ta ins b i la te ral trade and paymen ts arrangements —treated more or less liberally in accordance with quo ta and other arrangements and fluctuations in bilateral balances. Do l lar imports, in general, are charac ter ized by a certain degree of restric- tiveness. The determination of the over-all limits to be imposed upon par- t icu lar classes of imports is made at a ministerial or cabinet committee level and the more detailed allocation is effected by or with the advice of trade authorities. The import licenses, wh ich are issued by the Exchange Office, consti- tute an authorization for e f fec t ing paymen ts by au thor ized banks. Payments for Invisibles Control over payments in respect of many categories of invisible items is supervisory, to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. Payments for invisibles re la t ing to trade are free ly permitted when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties is remittable, subject to supervision. Quantitative restric- tions are applied to the allocation of exchange for travel. Special facilities, however, exist for business travel, pa r t icu la r ly for exporters who have been allowed to retain a percentage of export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Foreign exchange is granted on an individual basis in reasonable amounts f or travel abroad for education, health, and fam i ly reasons. Appropr ia te fore ign ex- change is granted for normal insurance commitments (except in a few specified cases), banking commissions, patents and royalties, and specified categories of taxes. Transfers to nonresidents of current earnings in the case of film ren ta ls and royalties are approved on a l iberal basis; however, amounts due to U.S. film companies may be partly transferred to the United States and partly credited to blocked accounts. Transfers on account of membership fees, subscriptions, donations, remittances for fam i ly maintenance, and movements of emigrants' funds are permitted up to specified limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 157 Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living near French frontiers, can bring in any amount of banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan f ranc s, CFA f rancs, or CFP f rancs. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are sub ject to individual licensing. Export proceeds must be collected within 90 days f r om arr ival of the goods at destina- tion and in the manner set f o r th in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, abov e ). Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a mon th of the date of their receipt. The fo l low ing percentages of export proceeds are exempt f r om sur- render requ iremen ts: 1. F i f teen per cent of proceeds f rom exports a. To Mexico, payab le in Mexican pesos or their equivalent in f r an cs f r om appropriate nonresident accoun ts; to Peru, pay- able only in f rancs f rom a Peruv ian accoun t; and to Cuba, in accordance with the Franco-Cuban agreement of Septem- ber 5, 1952; b. To any country, payable in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, D j ibou ti f rancs, or f rancs f rom a "free f r an c" accoun t; 2. Ten per cent of the proceeds of exports paid for in any other manne r; 3. Six per cent of the proceeds of exports on consignment. These retained percentages of export proceeds are kept in special separate "EFAC accounts" for each foreign currency and, in the case of export proceeds received in f rancs, d i f fe rent EFAC accounts are maintained according to the designation of the nonresident f r a nc account debited for the payment. The proceeds retained in EFAC accounts may be used only by the account holder for a large number of transactions, sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. However, one fifth of the allowance of 15 per cent referred to in (1) above is at the disposal of the exporters for any payment ab road, inc lud ing payment for any imports except those covered by an abso lu te p roh ib i t ion. The Exchange Off ice can permit exporters on an ind iv idual basis to re ta in a percentage of export proceeds higher than indicated above. Such perm i ts are granted par t icu lar ly in cases of exports wh ich either inc lude a h igh labor content or requ i re con- siderable publicity expenses abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect and surrender within a mon th f rom the date of receipt amoun ts due f rom nonresidents in respect of serv- ices. Residents are obliged to surrender once a year income in excess of fr 10,000 accruing f rom their foreign securities if these are kept abroad in an account in the name of the owner. Hotels and similar establishments dealing with foreign tourists are permitted to retain a percentage of exchange proceeds under conditions similar to those applicable to exporters. Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living abroad near French frontiers, can take w i th them out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan f ranc s, CFA f rancs, or CFP f rancs up to the value of fr 20,000.6 Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval and are generally not allowed for residents. Capital assets abroad belonging to or acquired by residents are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements, and their holders are permitted to reinvest them either in quoted securities in accordance with a general authorization or in other investments under an individual permit. New investments by nonresidents in France or the French Franc Area are accorded special treatment: 1. The "particular procedure" treatment. Nonresidents who have made specified investments in the French Franc Area financed through the sale of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or free Swiss francs, or through the utilization of balances on a nonresident "free f ranc" account, are permitted, when such investments have been appropriately registered with the Exchange Office, to liquidate them and repatriate proceeds accruing from such a liquidation. The "particular procedure" treatment can, under a special authorization of the Exchange Office, be accorded to new foreign investments effected by a resident of an EPU country, through the sale of currency, or French f rancs in a nonresident account, related to the country of his residence. Remittances on account of investments covered by the "particular procedure" have to be effected in accordance with the regulations governing f inanc ial relations between France and the country of the in- 8 As from January 11, 1953, the permissible amount was reduced to fr 10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 159 vestor. Investments effected under the "particular procedure" can be brought under the "general procedure" (see below) at the request of the nonresident concerned, if the category of invest- ments is permitted under the latter procedure. 2. The "general procedure" treatment. Nonresidents are freely permitted to make other specified investments in the French Franc Area if financed as described above, or through the utiliza- tion of balances on nonresident accounts in French francs related to, or through the sale of the currency of, the country of a person who makes an investment. The proceeds accruing from the liquidation of investments effected under this procedure may be credited to a "capital" account. The proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of specified capital assets belonging to nonresidents prior to December 21, 1949 may be freely credited to "capital" accounts. Transfers between "capital" accounts of the same nationality are free ly permitted. Balances on these accounts can be u t i l ized f ree ly for specified investments ( the same as those men t ioned under (2) above) and costs of the stay in France of the account holder or his fam i ly, limited to fr 10,000 per person per day, with a maximum of fr 500,000 for a month's stay of the fam i ly in France. Banknotes 1. Banknotes in a currency dealt in on the "free" market can be purchased by the au tho r ized banks w i thout any limitation of amount at the rates of the "free" market prior to the day of transaction. 2. Banknotes in Italian lire of denominations not higher than 1,000 lire may be purchased by au thor ized banks at the rates of the "official" market. In bo th these cases, au thor ized banks which hold an amount of banknotes higher than that needed for their transactions can sell them to other authorized banks or to the Bank of France. 3. Other fore ign banknotes may be purchased by au thor ized banks f rom their customers at any agreed ra te and sold to other authorized banks. Au tho r ized banks may sell banknotes to residents traveling abroad under conditions established by an open or ind iv idual license of the Exchange O f f ice, up to the max imum amoun ts wh ich other fo re ign exchange con trol au thor i t ies permit nonresident travelers to import. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1952 February 4 The list of imports f ree of license from OEEC countries was con- siderably reduced. February 8 Instead of fr 50,000 in French banknotes, only fr 20,000 were per- mitted to be exported freely by tourists. The exchange allocations for tourists were reduced. February 11 Balances on "capital" accounts were no longer permitted to be t rans fe r red to related nonresident accounts. February 19 All imports from OEEC countries again became subject to indi- vidual licensing. March 11 Importers of goods brought in from countries 7 with which France settles its accounts exclusively in French francs, in accordance with agreements, could, in exceptional cases, be permitted to buy fo rwa rd exchange independently of the currency of the contract, for the pur- pose of a guarantee. March 28 Residents traveling to Canada, Central American countries, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Liberia, Peru, United States, or Venezuela, and allowed exchange at the rate of US$20 per day for a maximum of 15 days in each country, were limited to a maximum of US$600 in all. April 8 The non t ran s fe rab le part of receipts collected by U.S. film com- panies in France was to be blocked and not, as previously, freely credited to "capital" accounts. October 31 The discretionary power of authorized banks to approve transfers was specified as being accorded to the following types of invisibles: fines, specified insurance payments, membership fees, various banking charges, foreign registration dues for patents and payment of annual T Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Lebanon, Peru, Poland, Spain, Syria, Turkey, and Eastern Germany. Iceland, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 161 fees, dues collected by the International Patents Office at the Hague, subscriptions to periodicals and reviews edited abroad, and a few minor items. December 3 Fifteen per cent of proceeds accruing f rom French exports to Cuba in accordance with the Franco-Cuban agreement of September 5, 1952 could be retained on EFAC account, with 3 per cent available for f ree utilization. December 17 The "particular procedure'7 t rea tment applicable to new foreign investments in the French Franc Area was modified as fo l lows: Earn- ings accruing f r om the liquidation of new investments could be trans- ferred abroad only in accordance with regulations concerning f inanc ial relations between France and the coun try of the investor and not necessarily in the currency in which the original investment may have been made. December 26 The "particular procedure" trea tment applicable to new foreign investments in the French Franc Area could be granted, subject to an individual decision of the Exchange Office, to new investments effected in the French Franc Area by persons residing in an EPU country th rough the sale of the currency of, or through the utilization of the balances on the nonresident account in f rancs related to, the country of the foreign investor. December 81 Residents going abroad for tourist purposes to countries other than those indicated above (Ma rch 28) could receive an exchange alloca- tion for only twro trips du r ing a year up to the limit determined for one specific country even if travel to more than one country were intended. If the add i t ional visited coun try were Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, or the United K ingdom, an extra allocation was au thor ized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Germany on July 15, 1931. After World War II, exchange control was operated in the Western Occupation Zones under Military Government Law No. 53 of May 28, 1945, and in Berlin through Ordinance No. 337 of the Allied Command of August 21, 1946. Foreign exchange holdings and earnings must be reported and surrendered upon request to the Land Central Banks on the basis of Article 2 of Military Government Law No. 53 (rev ised). Restrictions on invisible transactions are basically regulated by In- struction No. 31 of the Joint Export-Import Agency, which became effective August 20, 1949, and Foreign Trade Circular No. 6/50 of April 28, 1950. Certain exports require licenses according to the pro- visions of Foreign Trade Circular No. 28/51 of September 20, 1951. The present licensing procedure for the importation of goods against payment in foreign currency is carried out according to the basic pro- visions of Foreign Trade Circular No. 56/51 of December 15, 1951. The restrictive system is operated through prior import and pay- ment licensing in the form of purchase authorizations required to con- clude contracts abroad and through exchange licensing applied restric- tively, ma in ly against certain invisibles, chiefly those not related to trade and capital transactions. There are also special arrangements giving advantages to exporters obtaining proceeds in convertible cur- rencies. Exchange Rate System In principle, Germany operates a un i ta ry rate system based on the par value of Deutsche Marks 4.20 = US$1. The official rates are DM 4.195 buying, DM 4.205 selling, per US$1. In general, exchange rates are determined on the basis of the par values established with the Fund. Two practices, however, entail d ifferent exchange rates. Under the import rights system, 40 per cent of all export receipts in freely convertible currencies (U.S. dollars and f ree Swiss f r an c s) is retained in the fo rm of import rights. In April 1952, when the system was introduced, the premium on import rights was approximately 20 per cen t; subsequently, the premium steadily declined, to 5 per cent in early December 1952. Thus in December 1952, the e f fec t ive exchange ra te for exports to the do l lar area represented a p rem ium of 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC 163 2 per cent over the official rate,1 while imports f rom the dollar area carried out with import rights took place at an effective rate of DM 4.41 per US$1 (official selling rate plus the premium of 5 per cent). Under a payments agreement with Brazil, special arrangements for exchange transactions between Brazil and Germany came into effect September 4, 1952. These arrangements provide for a free market for "Brazilian accounting dollars", in which the cruzeiro, in effect, is at a discount (amoun t ing to approximately 10 per cent) in relation to the Deutsche Mark. All proceeds of exports contracted af ter the date of the agreement may be sold in this f ree market, while 80 per cent of fore ign exchange payments for imports f rom, and invisible transactions w i th, Braz il are made through this market. Administration of Control The authorities dealing with the various aspects of trade and ex- change control are indicated in the other sections of this survey. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency is an integral part of the German exchange system. If Germany has a payments agreement with a country, settlements must be effected through the channel and in the currency specified in the conditions of the agreement. Germany is a Transferable Account country in the United Kingdom's exchange control payments system, and payments to other Transferable Account countries may be made in sterling, even when bilateral agreements provide for payments in another currency. If no payments agreement is in force, payment may be received in the currency of the recipient coun t ry or in a third currency permitted or prescribed for export transactions. All foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports to the United States, Canada, and certain other countries 2 must be received in U.S. dollars. For exports to Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Japan, Mexico, Paraguay, and Uruguay, payments are in principle permitted only through the agreement accounts established w i th those countries. 1 The premium on import rights declined still fu r ther in the first months of 1953, to about 1 per cent, thus lowering the premium on export proceeds to 0.4 per cent. a These are Afghanistan, Albania, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Re- pub l i c, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Republic of Korea, Liberia, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, Rumania, Taiwan, Venezuela, and Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS For exports to payments agreement countries in EPU or the Sterling Transferab le Account Area, payments may be received in the currency specified in the agreement, or in sterling, which may be accepted if permission for the t ran s fer has been obtained f rom the central bank or foreign exchange au thor i t ies of the paying country. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts include accounts related to the execution of transactions under payments agreements, accounts related to the settlement of navigation expenses, and accounts related to settlements in transit trade. There are also representatives' DM accounts, which may be ma in- ta ined by fo re ign representatives w i th German au thor ized banks. Commission fees may be credited to these accounts if preva i l ing regu- lations permit them to be t ran s fe r red abroad to the fore ign repre- sentative. The fo re ign representative may make certain payments in Germany f r om these accounts, as well as payments for his own mer- chandise impor ts into his coun t ry of residence. The ba lance in such accounts may be t rans fe r red to the country of residence of the account holder. Accounts carr ied at au tho r ized banks by profess ional persons, e.g., notaries and attorneys, who act as administrators or trustees for non- residents, require a license arid must be expressed in Deutsche Marks. Air transportation DM accoun ts may be maintained for the branches of foreign air transpor ta t ion companies located in Germany, and may be carried at au thor ized banks w i th the approval of the Bank deutscher Lande r; they serve to record the DM equivalent of air fares and fre ight expenses wh ich have been paid. These accounts are generally trans- fe rab le. Blocked accounts for nonresidents may be ma in ta ined in financial ins t i tu t ions in Germany. The crediting of these accounts is restricted w i th in cer ta in limits, indicated below, and conversion to the account holder's own currency is in principle prohibited. Some of the chief sources of blocked accounts are sale of German real property by fo re ign owners; sale of securities held in Germany by nonresidents; receipts of interest and dividends due to nonresidents; restitution and compensation claims due to nonresidents for confiscation or war damage. In addition, cer ta in foreign debts may be repaid in Deutsche Ma rks f r om blocked accounts. Since Ma rch 3, 1951, t ran s fe rs of b locked accounts f rom one non- resident to another have been permitted if these accounts are kept ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC 165 with financial institutions w i th in the federal area. Funds which are thus t rans fe r red are held on deposit in Germany in "acquired" blocked accounts. All accounts receive the same treatment, irrespective of the origin of the payment and /or the na t iona l i ty of the holder. The use of originally blocked balances is possible to a greater extent than the use of "acquired" blocked balances. Funds in originally blocked accounts may be used for investment in Germany, travel in Germany, remittances to the holder's fam i ly in Germany, payments of taxes and insurance premiums in Germany, etc. Holders of "acquired" blocked accounts may not use such funds except for investment in Germany or for t ran s fer to ano ther nonresident. Possibilities for investment open to holders of both "acquired" and originally blocked accounts include real property, securities, pa r t ic ipa t ion in a German enterprise, setting up of an enterprise in Germany, and loans or credits to companies or private persons. Investment in real property, paid for out of originally blocked accounts, and in securities quoted on the stock exchange and paid for out of or ig ina l ly blocked accounts may be made under a general license, while other transactions call for a special license. In addition, holders of originally blocked accounts may, by special license, purchase —but in general not export —movable property to replace articles lost dur ing or a f ter the war. Imports and Import Payments All goods imported into Germany against payment in foreign ex- change require licenses. Be fo re the importer concludes a purchase contract, he must receive a "purchase authorization". This authoriza- tion, wh ich generally expires af ter four weeks, is a binding promise for an import-and-payment license, provided the purchase contract has been concluded according to the general import regulations and the terms of the purchase authorization. Purchase au thor iza t ions may be applied fo r, and are gran ted, on the basis of the publication of "import possibilities" and on the basis of lists concerning quantitatively unrestricted imports (i.e., "free lists") from OEEC countries and associated territories. They are also granted for certain imports for which exchange allocations are made under special procedures (see be low ). The agencies wh ich allocate purchase au thor iza t ions are either the Land Central Banks (under the "bank procedure") or a fede ral agency (under the "federal authorities procedure" and under the "LV proce- dure" for the rapid hand l ing of perishable food p roduc ts ). Under the bank procedure, the purchase au thor iza t ions are issued by the Land Central Banks on an automatic basis. The importer applies for an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS authorization to an authorized bank which checks his application for reliability and completeness. Notification of the total amount of the application, for the period specified for the import in the allocation announcement, is passed on to the Bank deutscher Lander by the authorized bank, through a Land Central Bank. If the amount applied for exceeds the amount released for imports, an allotment of the exchange made available takes place on a pro rata basis. Imports of consumers7 goods are generally carried out through the bank procedure. Under the federal authorities procedure, the applications are selected by designated fede ral agencies on a basis designed to ensure that pur- chases are made under the most favo rab le conditions, viz., price, de- livery period, and payment conditions. Importation of commodities, for which the amount of exchange made available is so small that allotment of this exchange under the bank procedure would be imprac- tical, is usually carr ied out under the fede ral authorities procedure. Under the LV procedure, the federal agency concerned issues the purchase authorization together w i th the import license, in accordance with the amount and criteria published regularly in the allocation announcements concerning imports of perishable food products. Import-and-payment licenses are issued exclusively by the Land Central Banks. Application for such a license must be made immedi- ately a f ter a purchase con tract is concluded. The license is usually valid for a period of up to 30 days beyond the specified delivery date. Immediately on receipt of the license, the exchange payment author- ized may be made by an authorized bank. Licenses for goods on the "free list" applying to imports from OEEC countries are issued if the importer produces a certificate of origin to show that the goods are derived f rom an OEEC country. Under the import rights and fore ign exchange working fund proce- dures, exporters are credited with pro memoria DM accounts which entitle the holders to exchange allocations for specified commodity imports. Import rights accounts are granted for 40 per cent of gross proceeds in freely convertible currencies (U.S. dollars and free Swiss francs) from domestically produced exports. They are t rans fe rab le and may be used for specified imports from the dollar a r e a ;3 10 per cent of 8 This includes Afghanistan, Albania, Bolivia, Canada, Mainland China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ethiopia, French Somaliland, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Israel, Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Nepal, N ica ragua, Panama, Peru, Philippine Republic, Puerto Rico, Rumania, Saudi A rab ia, Syria, Ta iwan, Thailand, U.S.S.R., United States and possessions, Venezuela, and Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC 167 these accounts may also be t ran s fe r red to foreign exchange working fund accounts (see be low ). When the import rights system was intro- duced in April 1952, the list of commodities which could be imported against import rights included some 90 items. In July 1952, this list was expanded to include 400 items which are classified into two groups; imports in one group may be imported against import rights only, while imports in the other group may be obtained with import rights as well as w i th exchange under the official allocation procedure. Four per cent of all receipts f rom domestically produced exports, in currencies wh ich are not f ree ly convertible, are credited to foreign exchange working fund accounts. Four per cent of f ree ly convertible currency receipts may also be re ta ined under this procedure, namely, by transferr ing 10 per cent of import rights accounts to foreign ex- change working fund accounts. Foreign exchange working fund ac- counts are, in principle, not transferab le and may be used for the importation of raw materials and other commodities essential to export production. Commodities thus imported may be used only in the firm carrying the foreign exchange working fund account. In addition, raw materials may be imported under the procedure for raw material credit transactions, whereby the proceeds of certain exports are used to repay foreign credits applied toward financing the importation of raw materials for the manu fac tu re of the export con- cerned. Payments for Invisibles Provisions for the var ious categories of invisibles are made in special c ircu lar letters, issued by the Federal Ministry of Economy in agreement w i th the Bank deutscher Lander. Of the total volume of payments for invisibles in 1952, over 50 per cent represented payments wh ich did not require a specific license but were subject to subsequent checking. The authorized banks check to see that the conditions for ca r ry ing out the paymen ts have been met. Where a license is required, the licensing offices —mostly the chief economic authorities of the Lander —make this check. For payments for services to OEEC countries, the principles laid down by that organization are applied. For most other countries, there are reciprocity agreements, and payments for services are permitted to the extent that reciprocity is assured by the other country partici- pating in the agreement. Services directly connected with trade, such as f re ight and insurance, are norma l ly transferab le in transactions with any country. Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS for tourist travel, however, are permitted only to OEEC countries and are subject to individual quotas, which amounted to DM 500 per adult for the period April 1-December 31, 1952.4 No license is required for payments made for the promotion of trade and services, for trade information and advertising expenses, and for the payment of com- missions to foreign representatives on the sale of exports, up to 5 per cent of incoming export proceeds. Restrictions on payments for invisibles, which are neither directly related to merchandise transactions nor considered to be in the capital sphere, such as remittances of pensions and transfers of wages and salaries, are subject to separate regulations. Wage transfers, up to DM 1,000, of foreign resident workers to OEEC countries are gen- erally approved. Wages and salaries of border and migrant workers may be transferred to OEEC countries, a f ter taxes and living expenses are deducted; only migrant workers need a license. Transfers of emi- grants' funds for their own use are limited to cases of hardship. Resi- dents, on leaving Germany, are permitted to take only the amount of foreign currency approved for individual cases. In small traff ic over international borders, border residents may import (and export) fo r- eign currencies in an amount equivalent to DM 20 per day; other residents, except in small border traffic, may take with them up to DM 40 in German banknotes and coin and use them to cover their traveling expenses abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out no more than DM 200 in German banknotes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds All foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be reported and surrendered w i th in the period permitted by the terms of the export regulations. In order that the surrender of exchange proceeds may be controlled, an export declaration is required for all exports. By signing the export declaration, the exporter becomes responsible for obtaining the proceeds of the export. Foreign exchange proceeds must be re- ceived in specified currencies. Certain exports —mostly strategic commodities —require a license which is granted by the Federal Office for Merchandise Trade. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations, and also check to see whether a license is required. Control over the receipts of export proceeds is undertaken by the Land Central Banks and the authorized banks, according to the instructions of the Bank 1 Effective April 1,1953, this exchange allowance was raised to DM 800 per year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC 169 deutscher Lander. The Bank deutscher Lander undertakes the evalua- tion of the returns. Control over export claims and receipts is carried out on the basis of the data given in the export declaration. Exporters are permitted to use without a license up to 5 per cent of their export proceeds to pay the customary commissions to their agents abroad and, in individual cases, they may draw up to US$500 for payments in settlement of claims arising from defects or to cover such usual discounts or other reductions in price as may have been subse- quently agreed upon. No higher amounts may be used for this pur- pose, except as authorized by specific or general licenses. In addition, under the import rights and the foreign exchange working fund proce- dures, exporters are credited w i th pro memoria DM accounts which constitute claims for an exchange allocation (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisible transactions are con- trolled by the Land Central Banks and the authorized banks. As for merchand ise imports, the final re turns are evaluated by the Bank deutscher Lander. Control is based on the reports of claims and re- ceipts by the firms concerned to the au thor ized banks. Nonresidents, on their entry in to Germany, may, in principle, import banknotes in foreign currencies in unlimited amounts. These bank- notes are registered in an exchange control declaration which the non- resident receives on crossing the border into Germany. Nonresidents may also reconvert Deutsche Marks, obtained on their entry into Ger- many with an exchange control declaration, into banknotes of the originally imported currency. Travelers may bring in no more than DM 200 in German banknotes and coins. Capital The* t rans fer to Germany of cap i tal assets belonging to nonresidents is permitted for investment purposes, provided the accounts are held at a financial institution in the Federal Territory. Foreigners are authorized to purchase real estate, securities issued by public bodies, and securities which are dealt with on German stock exchanges; there are no registration requirements for these investments. In general, the transfer of capital assets or earnings on capital assets from Germany to foreign countries is not permitted under present regulations. However, legacies accrued a f ter December 31, 1946 and payable to persons resident in the United States may be transferred. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Securities payable in German currency may be transferred by non- residents for sale or deposit to a financial institution in Germany. The proceeds of such sales must be credited to a blocked DM account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents have no power to dispose of prewar German assets abroad. New foreign investments by residents have been regulated since Janu- ary 30, 1952. New investments abroad require a license granted by the Federal Ministry of Economy in cooperation w i th the Bank deutscher Lander. The regulations spec ify that new foreign invest- ments should be carried out in the most favo rab le way f rom the point of view of foreign exchange. Capital paid in proper ty or in services is preferred, and only in exceptional cases can the t rans fer of foreign currency for investment purposes be considered. Changes during 1952 January 1 A new import and payment l icens ing p rocedu re came into force, in accordance with Foreign Trade C ircu lar No. 56/51 of December 15, 1951. The new procedure in troduced the requirement of a "purchase authorization" which norma l ly assures the automatic issuance of an import-and-payment permit. It also transferred the licensing authority from the authorized banks to the Land Central Banks. Imports from OEEC countries, for which the liberalization proce- dure had been temporarily suspended on February 22, 1951, were reliberalized. The new "free list" inc luded 57 per cent of the com- modities constituting the p r iva te impo r ts into Germany f rom OEEC countries in 1949. April 1 The import rights system was in troduced. Under this system, ex- porters receiving fore ign exchange proceeds in U.S. dollars or free Swiss francs were credited w i th t rans fe rab le pro memoria DM accounts amounting to 40 per cent of their proceeds. These accounts entitled them to import f rom the dollar area commodities specified on the so-called "positive list", which contained approximately 90 items. The "free list" for liberalized imports f rom OEEC countries was expanded f rom 57 per cent to 75 per cent of such imports in 1949. July 17 A new l ibera l iza t ion list was published for imports f rom the Anglo- Egyptian Sudan, Au s t ra l ia, Bu rma, Ceylon, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, and the Union of South A f r i c a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC 171 July 25 The provisions for the foreign exchange working fund procedure were revised. The percentage of the foreign exchange working fund accounts, which may be used for the importation of machinery or materials for increasing productive capacity but which are not directly used for the processing of export goods, was increased f rom 10 to 20. No "purchase authorization" was required, provided a permit was obtained from the Land authorities, for imports below DM 2,000, or from the fede ral authorities, for imports exceeding DM 2,000. July 30 The "positive list" for commodities eligible under the import rights system was expanded f rom 90 to 400 items. The import commodities on the new list were specified in two groups: Group A, for which foreign exchange (U.S. dollars and free Swiss francs) is made avail- able on the basis of import rights only, and Group B, for which addi- tional foreign exchange outside the f ramewo rk of the import rights system may be made available. August 12 The free list for liberalized OEEC imports was expanded from 75 per cent to 81 per cent of similar imports in 1949. September 4 A free market was introduced for "Brazilian accounting dollars", used in payments transactions under the payments agreements between Germany and Brazil. December 11 The amount of foreign currencies which border residents could import or export under the small border t ra f f ic arrangements was increased f rom the equivalent of DM 10 to the equivalent of DM 20 per day. In travel other than small border traffic, persons with per- manent residence in the federal area were permitted to export up to DM 40 in German banknotes and coins and to use these for traveling expenses abroad. December 15 The amount of German banknotes which could be taken out of Germany by nonres ident travelers was raised from DM 100 to DM 200. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Origin and Essential Features A system of controls was introduced in Greece on September 28, 1931. The most recent ma jor revision took place in October 1952 when a system of compensation import rights was largely replaced by a system of export subsidies and taxes on exchange in connection with imports, called "contributions".* All imports are subject to licensing; exchange is automatically granted for authorized imports. Contribu- tions at various rates are charged in connection with certain imports.* All invisible payments require individual licenses, which are granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions. All exports are sub ject to individual licensing, ma in ly for currency pre- scription purposes. Export proceeds as well as all other proceeds must be surrendered, but barter transactions w i th certain countries are permitted, subject to license. All capital transfers are subject to individual approval. Prescription of currency requirements are applied to exchange receipts and payments. Exchange Rate System* There is no established par value for the drachma. The parity rate is Dr 15,000 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 14,910 buy ing, Dr 15,060 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other currencies are related to the established par values of those currencies. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, and a Currency Committee, and are carried out by an Exchange Control Committee, the Bank of Greece, and authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and manner provided for by trade and 1 After consultation with the Fund, Greece, on April 9, 1953, eliminated multiple currency practices which had existed, and ad jus ted the official exchange rate to 30,000 drachmas per US$1. The alterations in the exchange system made at that time have not been taken into account in the present description, but the main aspects affected are indicated by an asterisk in the text. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 173 payments agreements, or on the basis of the origin and destination of the goods and services involved. Under the terms of most of the trade and payments agreements, settlements are usually effected through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as an accounting unit, or in the currency of the partner country. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts are sub ject to ind iv idual licenses issued by the Bank of Greece under directives and regulations issued by the Minister of Trade. The total value of import licenses, other than those issued in respect of three categories of imports indicated below, is determined in acco rdance with an annual import program d rawn up by the Min- istry of Trade on the basis of the country's exchange availabilities and economic needs. This program includes five groups: (1) most commodities, for which import licenses are issued up to a certain limit on a first come, first served basis (List C - l ); (2) commodities for wh ich the approval of the M in is try of Trade is required (List C - 2 ); (3) commodities for wh ich quotas up to 90 per cent of the total value of such imports are allocated by the Chamber of Commerce in accord- ance w i th the h is tor ical pa t te rn of the d is tr ibu t ion of imports, the rema in ing percen tage of p rog rammed imports of the group being re- served for other impor ters; (4) specified imports (e.g., fresh meat, live animals, eggs, certain essential food s tu f f s, chemicals, pha rma- ceuticals) in respect of wh ich licenses are issued to persons declaring the lowest import price in terms of fore ign cu r rency; and (5) imports directly effec ted by the Director of Purchase of the Greek Government (e.g., wheat, dry skins, milk, tea, coarse grains, soya flour). Imports outside the annual program are (a) capital goods needed for reconstruction programs, (b) goods brought in through compensa- tion transactions, and (c) imports paid out of privately held foreign exchange. In connection w i th certain imports, contributions are levied rang ing from 25 to 200 per cent of their c.i.f. value.* One ha lf of the tax is collected upon the opening of the related documentary credit and the other ha lf when the transaction is finally settled. Exchange is au toma t ica l ly granted for authorized imports. In most cases payments for imports have to be effec ted through confirmed credits opened by au thor ized banks. Payments for Invisibles Payments on account of invisibles requ ire individual licenses, but these are granted free ly for expenses inc iden tal to authorized trade ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (e.g., ships and airplanes, merchandise transportation, fire, accident, and l ife insurance) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to ind iv idual licensing, which serves princi- pally the purpose of ensuring the surrender of proceeds in the appro- priate currency. Most exports are directly subsidized. The export subsidies have been fixed according to commodity at 12, 15, 20, 30, 40, or 50 per cent, calculated on the exchange value of the export goods.* Exports on a total barter basis are permitted only to countries with which there is no clearing agreement or f rom which foreign ex- change cannot be obtained. In such cases, the countervalue of the Greek export has to be received entirely in the fo rm of certain goods specified according to essentiality in various lists. The regulations indicate in percentage terms the import rights applying to d i f fe rent classes of imports that may be entered as counterpart to the exports. Where an exporter does not himself effect a part or all of the counter- part imports, the import rights may be negotiated. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign exchange proceeds from shipping are exempted from the surrender requirement; however, shipowners have to pay taxes, fees, etc., and have to cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of fore ign exchange to the Bank of Greece at the off ic ial rate. Ind iv idua ls may b r ing in a max imum of Dr 50,000 in Greek banknotes. Capital Transfers of capital abroad require approval. Interest and amorti- zation service on Greek securities is suspended. The investment of foreign capital requires approval whenever service thereon and/or fu tu re repatriation is intended. All drachma assets of nonresidents are required to be declared and held in blocked accounts. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, however, balances on such accounts may be utilized for the purchase by a nonresident of real estate in Greece; the sale of such real estate is perm i t ted pro- vided that sale proceeds are credited to a b locked account opened in the name of the nonresident seller. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 175 Exchange receipts f rom capital invested abroad must, in principle, be surrendered. Funds held in the United States by Greek residents must be registered with the Bank of Greece. Twenty per cent of any amount exceeding US$10,000 has to be repatriated in the form either of exchange or of imports. Banks are permitted to purchase abroad, on their own account or on behalf of their customers, Greek or foreign securities provided they use for such purchases foreign exchange legally held abroad. Changes during 1952 January Effective December 31, 1951, a special tax on nonessential imports, ranging f rom 25 to 100 percent of their c.i.f. value, was introduced. January 20 An importer could be granted a credit equal to 100, 50, or 25 per cent of the value of the imported commodity according to the essen- tiality classification of the import involved. Importers of nonessentials could not be granted any credit. February Persons entering Greece no longer were required to declare the amount of foreign exchange or foreign banknotes brought in, unless they intended to re-export them. The obligation of persons entering Greece to declare the amount of gold, gold coins, or securities brought in was maintained. September A restricted number of raw materials ( raw and washed wool, top wool, j u te and its substitutes, chemical and mechanical wood pu lp) coming from EPU countries and other countries which have concluded trade agreements with Greece could be imported on presentation of the bills of lading, on condition, however, that the importer arranged a guarantee with the Bank of Greece covering 30 per cent of the value of the order. Prior to this change, the importation of foreign goods had been authorized only on the opening of a banker's credit, made out in favor of the supplier at the time the order was given and covering the total amount of the invoice. October Merchandise transactions under the system of compensation import rights were abolished and export subsidies, which were fixed according to the commodity at 15, 20, 30, 40, or 50 per cent of the exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS value of exported goods, were substituted.* The percentages were fixed to yield effective exchange rates corresponding approximately to the effective rates that exporters were receiving before October 8, 1952 under the system of compensation import rights. At the same time, a substantial part of imports was made subject to contributions of 25, 50, 100, 150, or 200 per cent of the exchange value, depending on the essentiality of the commodities concerned.* Half of the contribu- tion was payable upon the opening of the confirmed credit, and the rest upon the arrival of the goods in Greece. The revenues f rom these contributions would be used for payment of the export subsidies while the remainder would be transferred to the government budget account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Hong Kong on September 8, 1939. Since then various measures have been taken to secure control over most non-do l lar transactions. Control is applied to most trade and exchange transactions. As an exception, certain exchange trans- actions and trade with nearby territories are effected without control or restrictions; and other transactions, mainly in U.S. dollars against Hong Kong dollars, are freely effected through a free market. Since the former are dealt with at official rates and the latter at free market rates, a multiple exchange rate practice results. Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1, but there is a multiple exchange rate system comprising the official rates, free market rates, and four mixed rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The off ic ial rates are those of the authorized banks based on the sterling/Hong Kong dollar rates (established by agreement between the three note-issuing banks and the Hong Kong Official Exchange Fund) and the s ter l ing /fore ign currency rate in the London foreign exchange marke t. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the U.S. dollar proceeds of exports not of local origin (exceptionally, in the case of seven local com- modities, a percentage of the proceeds must be surrendered at the official ra te ), and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rate applies to all other transactions. Exchange Control Territory The Colony of Hong Kong is a part of the Sterling Area —the Sched- uled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The exchange control system in Hong Kong is operated by 25 banks authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are not permitted to conclude exchange transactions at other than the official rates. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Prescription of Currency All payments and receipts except those effected through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the United Kingdom's Exchange Control Regulations. (For details, see United Kingdom, section on Prescription of Currency.) In addi- tion, payments and receipts may be made in Hong Kong dollars through the account of a bank established in the other country concerned. Nonresident Accounts Credits to the accounts of banks situated outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan require licenses. Payments f rom these accounts, including payments for ex- ports to the respective countries invoiced in Hong Kong dollars, may be made to residents of Hong Kong. Credits to the accounts of persons and firms resident in the the North American continent and the Philip- pine Republic require licenses; but credits to accounts of persons and firms in other countries do not require licenses. All transfers between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories require licenses, but authorized exchange banks may make or receive such payments with- out a license if the transaction is in respect of (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories, (2) dividends and interest payments, or (3) small bank charges. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain strategic materials and for some other items from specified countries, imports are f ree of import licensing. Exchange licenses are required, even if the importer provides his own exchange, for imports f rom all countries except other parts of the Sterling Area, North America, Mainland China, Indo-China, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, the Philippine Republic, Taiwan, and Thailand. The ex- change licenses are freely granted provided payment is made in accord- ance with the regulations laid down in the United Kingdom (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Foreign exchange, other than U.S. dollars, in payment for authorized imports may be obtained at the rate corresponding to the official rate, but U.S. dollar exchange at this rate is normally authorized only for a few imports regarded as strictly essential. For other authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange can be obtained in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 179 Payments for Invisibles To obtain exchange at the official rate, an exchange license is re- quired. These are granted to local residents for most invisible trans- actions on criteria similar to those applied in the United Kingdom, e.g., exchange at the official rate for travel, personal remittances, and similar purposes is limited. If exchange at the official ra te is not authorized, exchange licenses can be issued upon evidence of the prior sale to an au thor ized exchange bank of the equivalent in U.S. dollars (wh ich can be purchased on the f ree m a rk e t ). In any event, payments may be free ly effec ted through the f ree market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. All transfers to other pa r ts of the Sterling Area require licenses, except for dividends and interest payments, for which author- ized exchange banks may make remittances without a license. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain strategic articles and of a few commodities in short supply to any des t ina t ion require a license.1 For exports to all countries other than the Sterling Area, Ma in land China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan, a dec lara t ion by the exporter, showing how the export proceeds will be collected, must be approved by the Department of Commerce and Industry. Payment for exports to countries other than Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Taiwan, and the Sterling Area must be collected by one of the methods prescribed in the exchange control regulations of the United Kingdom as being appropr ia te to the country of destination of the goods, or in Hong Kong dollars f rom the account of a bank established in the country of destination of the goods. The U.S. do l lar f.o.b. proceeds of most Hong Kong exports or ig ina t ing in Ma in land Ch ina, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan are freely disposable. The U.S. dollar proceeds f rom exports originating in other countries must be entirely surrendered. The U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of exports originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Macao must be surrendered to the extent of 50 per cent for cotton ya rn, 25 per cent for lead, silver (sub- ject to prior permission), and tin, 20 per cent for copper and feathers, and 15 per cent for wood oil. The remaining percentage may be sold in the free market. Exchange proceeds in other currencies f rom exports to countries other than Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, 1 Export licensing in Hong Kong, as in some other areas, is not related to exchange control. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Macao, and the Sterling Area must be received in fore ign exchange appropriate to the coun t ry of des t ina t ion (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles The receipt of t rans fe rs f rom other parts of the Sterling Area re- quires permission, unless in respect of dividends or interest. The proceeds of f re ight and insurance payab le on exports originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan and financed in U.S. dollars must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate if they have been paid by the exporter in Hong Kong in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars. The surrender of other exchange receipts f rom invisibles is not insisted upon. Capital Outgoing t rans fe rs of cap i tal in currenc ies other than U.S. dollars may be e f fec ted at the off ic ial rate, but they requ i re licenses wh ich are granted only for approved purposes or at the d iscre t ion of the local control provided the equ iva lent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank. T rans fe rs of cap i tal can be f ree ly e f fec ted through the free ma rket by holders of Hong Kong do l lars, but all transfers to and receipts f rom other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, which are granted for all bona fide transac t ions e f fec ted between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 181 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (sterling per Hong Kong dollar or Hong Kong dollars per £/jS. dollar) Buying Selling Is. 3 l/32d. All transactions in sterling against Hong Kong dollars. (Rates for non-dollar currencies are based on sterling rate.) Is. 2 15/16d. All transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling. HK$5.714 Exports not originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, and Macao payable in U.S. dollars. HK$5.797 as appropriate A few essential imports payable in U.S. dollars. Authorized invisibles and capi- tal. All non-dollar imports. HK$5.866 (50% at HK$5.714 and 50% at Free Market Rate) Cotton yarn exports.2 HK$5.942 (85% at HK$5.714 and 75% at Free Market Rate) Lead, silver, and tin exports.2 HK$5.957 (20% at HKS5.714 and 80% at Free Market Rate) Copper and feather exports.2 HK$5.972 (15% at HKS5.714 and 85% at Free Market Rate) Wood oil exports.2 HK$6.0175 (Fluctuating Free Market (approx.) Rate) All other exports. Invisibles and capital. HK$6.0175 (Fluctuating Free Market (approx.) Rate) All other imports payable in U.S. dollars. Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1952 April 4 The re-export of goods of Japanese origin to other parts of the Sterling Area was suspended. 2 Originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Macao, and received in U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS May 15 The es tab l ishment of credits in sterling in favor of a Hong Kong in termed iary covering sh ipmen ts of Chinese goods f rom Ma in land China or Hong Kong to Japan was made sub ject to exchange con- trol approval. July 15 Twenty per cent of U.S. do l lar proceeds derived f r om expor ts of fea the rs or ig ina t ing in Ma in land Ch ina, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Macao had to be surrendered at the o f f ic ial ra te. September 26 The list of goods sub ject to export licensing was en larged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was in troduced in Iceland on October 2, 1931. The exchange and impo rt regu la t ions now in fo r ce date f r om an Act of June 5, 1947. The system has been sub ject to several impor tant changes, the latest being on M a r ch 8, 1951, wiien impo rt certificates were in t roduced, and on Apr il 6, 1951, when designated goods could be f ree ly impor ted f r om any source. The restrictive system in Iceland is comprised of (1) res tr ic t ions on imports, (2) restrictions on all exchange paymen ts ( in c lud ing those in respect of impo r t s ), (3) import ce r t i f ica tes app l ied to ce r ta in exports and imports, and (4) license fees. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Ice land ic K r o n ur 16.2857 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are IKr 16.26 buy ing, IKr 16.32 selling, per US$1. Exports of most produc ts of the small fishing boat indus try bene f it f rom the d is tr ibu t ion of add i t ional local currency in a pool derived f rom the su rcha rge payab le by cer ta in impor ters. Exchange Control Territory Iceland is a pa rt of the S te r l ing Area — the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange con trol system. Administration of Control The gran t ing of import licenses, whe re required for goods not on the f r ee lists, is in the hands of the Impo rt and Exchange Division of the Economic Board, wh ich is also responsible for the over-all adm in- is tra t ion of exchange con t ro l. The two largest Ice land ic banks have the exclusive r ight to buy and sell fo re ign exchange and determine f rom time to time the extent to wh ich exchange is ava i lab le to pay for imports. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and receipts f rom ce r ta in coun tr ies in respect of speci- fied transac t ions must be e f f e c t ed in the currency and by method laid down in the paymen ts agreemen ts conc luded w i th those countries. Imports and Import Payments Regardless of other requ i remen ts, p r ior ce r t i f ica t ion is requ ired f rom an Ice land ic bank that exchange is ava i lab le to make payment for an impo rt b e f o re the impo rt can be e f fec ted. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Certain imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined fo rm. These licenses are granted on a consideration of the essentiality of the goods and the availability of exchange to pay for them. Specified goods can be imported from any source w i thout such licenses. Certain goods may also be imported without such licenses with certificates derived f rom the proceeds of certain exports— products of the small fishing boat industry, except cod-liver oil, her- ring, and herr ing products. Such cer t if ica tes are acquired through the payment of a prem ium according to the country f rom which the import is to be obtained: 60 per cent of the nominal value for imports f rom EPU and dollar area countries and 25 per cent for imports f rom "clearing" countries.1 When import licenses for passenger automobiles are issued, a fee amoun t ing to 35 per cent of the amount licensed must be paid in Icelandic currency. Exchange is available for all goods actually imported, since cer- tification by an Icelandic bank to that effect is required as a prior condition of impo r ta t ion. Payments for Invisibles All outgoing payments require a license. These licenses are granted only on a basis of essentiality and the availability of the required fore ign exchange. At the time of issuance of exchange licenses for travel purposes a fee of 25 per cent of the amount involved is payab le. Residents traveling abroad may take with them fore ign banknotes and coins to a maximum of IKr 150. The exportation of Icelandic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresidents may re-export unex- pended amounts of fore ign bankno tes and coins wh ich were declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered, and exporters of products of the small fishing boat industry, except cod-liver oil, herring, and her- ring products, obtain, in addition, a certificate nominally equivalent to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported. These certificates can be exchanged for other certificates wh ich may be sold at a fixed premium to importers th rough a pool of exporters or used by the 1 These are listed as Austria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, and Spain. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 185 Federation of Cooperative Societies to import designated less essential goods, wh ich, when imported, are not sub ject to domestic pr ice con- trol. The surcharge payab le on these certificates is 60 per cent for exports to EPU and dollar area countries and 25 per cent for exports to "clearing" coun tr ies; the proceeds derived f rom their sale are col- lected in a cen tral pool, f rom wh ich a distribution is made per iod ica l ly to exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Shipowners and insurance companies are pe rm i t ted to use a portion of their exchange earnings for operating purposes. The importation of Ice- landic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital Outgoing t ran s fe rs of cap i tal requ ire app rova l, wh i ch is granted only in exceptional circumstances. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1952 January 5 Import cer t if ica tes derived f rom exports paid in EPU or dollar area currencies could be used for impor ts f rom any country. The lists of goods wh i ch could be imported f rom all coun t r ies and f rom the "clear- ing" countries were extended. January 18 The list of goods wh ich could be imported f rom any coun try w i thout an import and exchange certificate was extended. January 30 Revised import control regulations provided that the local customs au thor i t ies should re tu rn goods w i th in two mon ths of receipt to the coun try of origin, if it is determined that they have not been paid for in advance, or that the necessary fo re ign exchange for this payment had not been previously allocated by an Icelandic bank. August 29 Severe restrictions were placed on imports f rom EPU countries of certain goods wh ich could still be imported f rom the "clearing" coun- tries. No exchange would be granted for fore ign travel other than in exceptional circumstances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in India in September 1939, at the outbreak of World War II. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, extended in 1952 with some mod i f ica t ion, empowers the central Government and the Reserve Bank of Ind ia to control and regulate dealings in fore ign exchange and fore ign securities in India, receipts f rom and payments to nonresidents, the export and import of currency and bullion, and transfers of securities to nonresidents. The Indian restrictive system is based on the pr inc ipal of surrender of fore ign exchange receipts and their a l loca t ion by the control authorities to paymen ts for goods, services, and o ther transactions on the basis of priority of needs and the "hardness" of the currency involved. Exchange Rate System The par value is Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions are effec ted at un i fo rm rates. All transactions in fore ign exchange must be conducted through the med ium of au thor ized dealers, whose dealings with the general pub l ic must be effec ted at rates arrived at on the basis of par values established by the Fund and its members. Authorized dealers in India are permitted to cover their requirements of certain specified fore ign exchange in the London market. They can also cover their permitted transactions in the specified currencies, either spot or f o rw a r d, with their agents in the respective countries against sterling or rupees. Administration of Control Like other Sterling Area countries, India has an exchange control system similar to that in operation in the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. The adm in is tra t ive work and decisions on exchange control matters are hand led by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Ind ian Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. A great deal of routine work on exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks wh ich act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell fore ign exchange for specified purposes under regu la t ions laid down by the Reserve Bank. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 187 Prescription of Currency Transactions with nonresidents are subject to the prescription of currency requ iremen t; that is, payments to or f rom fore ign countries must be effec ted in the appropriate currency prescribed by the exchange control authority. Transactions with a large number of countries are governed by sterling payments and mone tary agreements entered into with them by the United Kingdom and ava i lab le to the whole Sterling Area. In a number of cases, payments may be made either in the currency of the country concerned or by the t rans fer of sterling or rupees to the account of a resident therein, wh i le in others, the t rans fer of sterling or rupees to or f rom the appropriate accounts for the country concerned constitute the only methods of settlement allowed. Ind ia's transactions with Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan are governed by the mu l t i la te ral settlement principle among Sterling Area countries under which payments may be made in the currency of either the Sterling Area country involved or in the currency of any other country or territory in the Sterling Area. Payments between India and Pakistan, however, can be effected in only Indian or Pakistan rupees accord ing to special arrangements between the two countries. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts consist of rupee accounts belonging to persons, firms, or banks resident outside India. Payments to the accounts of nonresident banks for imports, interest, dividends, or allowances can be made by authorized dealers without prior approval. Other pay- ments from residents to such accounts must be approved by the Reserve Bank. On the payment side, the nonresident accounts of fo re ign banks can be drawn on to pay for Ind ian exports and other payments if the amount of an individual transaction does not exceed Rs 20,000. In all other cases, prior approval of the Reserve Bank must be obtained. Rupee balances of banks in other Sterling Area territories can be transferred freely f rom one to another. Those of non-Sterling Area banks can also be transferred freely to nonresident rupee accounts in banks within the Sterling Area. Transfers between rupee accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area are also allowed. All other interbank transfers require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Payments of dividends and interest on securities and proceeds of small checks up to certain limits can be credited, w i thout prior ap- proval, to nonresident accounts of private ind iv idua ls and firms. The same applies to such debit items as paymen ts for insu rance prem iums, income taxes, and rem i t tances to relatives, sub ject to the l im it of Rs 500 for each transac t ion. All other credits and deb i ts requ ire the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not no rm a l ly permitted f rom these accounts to nonresident accounts of banks be- longing to the same country or mone tary area as the account ho lde r, unless the items or ig ina l ly credited to such accounts were "cu r ren t ly remittable" in na ture. Proceeds f r om cap i tal assets be long ing to residents r e t i r i ng or emigrating to other countries and which cannot be t ran s fe r red are deposited in blocked accounts. This applies also to the proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of certain nonresident-owned investments wh i ch cannot be repatriated. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Ind ian rupee securities. The income derived f r om such investments may be remitted to the owne r 's coun t ry with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments In allocating exchange among d i f f e r ent impor ts, the impo rt control authority has three principal considerations: essentiality, the domes t ic supply situation, and the "hardness" of the cu r rency invo lved. On ly highly essential goods unob ta inab le in su f f ic ient quan t i t ies in "sof t" currency areas are permitted to be imported f rom dollar area countries. Nevertheless, if certain goods ava i lab le in "soft" cu r rency areas are too high in price or the ir delivery da te is too slow, the ir impo rt may be permitted f rom a "hard" currency coun try. Goods can be imported in to Ind ia under e i ther an open general license or an ind iv idual license. An open general license perm i ts an individual or firm to import the goods listed there in w i thout quan t i ta- tive limitations f r om the respective coun t ry or mone tary area spec if ied. Ind iv idual licensing can be by quotas allocated to established im- porters and ac tual users or by ad hoc licensing. Currency-wise, there are two k inds of l icenses: wor ld-w ide, app l icab le to impor ts f r om all countries, and "soft" currency, for imports f rom "soft" cu r rency countries only. Before the start of each ha l f -yea r ly licensing period, the import control authority makes an announcement conce rn ing goods wh ich are to be adm i t ted under the quota procedure: for established ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 189 importers, the quota is based on the percentage of goods imported by them during a basic per iod; and for actual users (fac tor ies and enter- prises employing a m in imum of 50 fac to ry wo rke r s ), the quota is sufficient to meet the requirements in each commodity over a certain number of months. There are also special procedures applicable to capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to f u l f i ll government contracts and irrigation projects. The payment procedure for imports requires the presentation of a valid import license or, for goods covered by an open general license, reference to the open general license number. Authorized dealers can effect payments for clients by opening letters of credit or making re- mittances or transfers when the above requirements are met and when both the currency and method of payment are appropriate (see section on Prescription of Currency, abov e ). In principle, advance remittances for payment of imports be fo re sh ipp ing documents are received are not normally permitted. But for mach ine ry and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manu fac tu re rs, the Reserve Bank grants special au thor iza t ion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad generally require approval. How- ever, except for travel, insurance, and a few other items, foreign exchange is freely granted for such payments. This is especially so for expenses incidental to trade transactions and t rans fe rs of recu r r ing contractual obligations. Foreign exchange facilities are granted for business travel and education abroad according to a scale of allowances fixed for each country. Foreign exchange is not norma l ly granted for travel, other than for purposes of business, health, and educa t ion, to the Philippine Repub l ic and countries on the American con t inent except B raz i l, Chile, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. A basic ration of £600 per adult ava i lab le during a period of two years, plus a l lowances for re turn fares, is a l lowed to all persons resident in India for mak ing personal trips to "soft" currency areas; in addition, a special a l lowance of Rs 2,000 per adult once in two years, plus re turn fares, is granted for travel to neighboring countries. Special provisions govern the g ran t ing of exchange for travel connected with medical treatment, visits to "hard" currency countries being sub ject to severe restrictions. Premiums on insurance policies issued to residents in foreign cur- rency may be paid in rupees or in the currency in wh ich the policy ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS is issued. Indian residents are proh ib i ted f rom taking out l i fe policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiary owners permanently resident in any coun try outside India. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable rem i t tances to their own countries in payment of insurance p rem iums or other expenses and for the support of their families. Au tho r ized dealers can allow to Sterling Area nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, such remittances by the principal member of a f am i l y, up to a maximum of £150 per month in the currency of any Sterling Area country. Each application of non-Sterling Area nationals is con- sidered on its own merits, and facilities are given for the remittance of savings which the applicant may be reasonably expected to make. Persons leaving India, except those going to Pakistan and A fghan- istan, may take out Indian and foreign currency notes or coins not exceeding a total value of Rs 270 per month. Persons leaving for Pakistan may take out not more than Rs 50 per day in Ind ian notes and coins and another Rs 50 in Pakistan notes and coins. Persons leaving for Afghan is tan may take out A f g h an currency without limit and Indian currency in notes and coins up to Rs 50 per day. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of certain commodities is controlled by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and can be effected only under an open general license or special license. Goods on open general license are not sub ject to quantitative restrictions, but destinations may be prescribed. Con- trolled exports not under open general license may be licensed either freely or under global or destinational quotas. Since June 1951, a policy of progressively w i thd raw ing global and destinational quotas has been followed. The export of goods is permitted only if the exporter makes a declaration on the prescribed fo rm to the Collector of Customs that foreign exchange representing the f u ll export va lue of the goods has been or will be disposed of in a manner and w i th in the period specified by the Reserve Bank. The currencies in wh ich the export proceeds may be received are prescribed (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 191 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles in U.S. dollars and Philippine pesos must be surrendered. All other receipts may be retained, but their disposal is sub ject to license. General permission has been granted by the Reserve Bank for any person to bring or send into India w i thout limit Ind ian currency and banknotes from any foreign country except Pakistan, A fghan is tan, and Burma, where special limitations apply. With the exception of Bank of England notes and the currency notes of Burma, foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arr iva l. Persons ho ld ing dec lara t ion forms duly certified may sell the relative currency notes to any money changer or au thor ized dealer in fo re ign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is p rac t ica l ly free except when it fo rms part of an inves tment wh ich requires the prior approval of the Ind ian Governmen t; in such cases, applications have to be made to the Reserve Bank which refers them to the Indian Government. Exchange receipts f rom approved fo re ign capital investment and f rom capital in Philippine pesos and U.S. dollars have to be surrendered; all other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires a license. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment as Ind ian enterprises. Outward movements are sub ject to control. Repa tr ia t ion of cap i tal owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and of capital invested in India by residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, is free ly authorized. Capital invested in approved projects a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 by resi- dents of other countries may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds f rom liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked and may only be placed on deposit or be invested in approved Ind ian securities. Transfers of capital for purposes other than investment, such as re- tirement, emigration, and legacies, are also sub ject to control. More f avo r ab le treatment is given to Sterling Area nationals and transfers to other Sterling Area territories. The export and t rans fer of securities to nonresidents are under control. There are no restrictions on the br ing ing or sending into India of securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1952 February 25 The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, was extended with some mod if ica t ion up to December 31, 1957. February 26 In addition to the usual method of covering specified currencies f rom British banks, au tho r ized dea lers in India were allowed to cover their permitted transactions in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Belgian francs, French f ranc s, and Swiss f rancs, either spot or fo rwa rd, with their correspondents or branches in the respective countries. (Similar regulations were issued in respect of Netherlands guilders and Swedish kronor on Ju ly 7 and November 24, respectively.) The separate pre- scription of currency for payments to and f rom the United States and Canada was abolished, paymen ts in U.S. dollars for goods of C an ad i an origin being pe rm i t ted, and vice versa. Au tho r ized dealers were also allowed to cover spot or fo rwa rd U.S. dollars with banks in Canada and C an ad i an do l la rs w i th banks in the United States. March 22 Quota restrictions on the export of j u te m a n u f a c t u r es were removed. April 5 The export of sugar was permitted. May 15 Quota restrictions on the export of niger seed were removed. May 18 The export of coarse and med ium textiles was f r e e ly perm i t ted to all destinations. June 15 The impo rt po l icy for J u l y -D e c em b er 1952 was a n n o u n c e d. O.G.L. No. XXIII wou ld expire J u ne 30, 1952, and most of the items thereon were t rans fe r red to O.G.L. Nos. XX IV and XXV, va l id to the end of March 1953, for "hard" and "soft" currency countries, respectively. Some cuts in import quotas were made, and a number of commodities, namely butter, cheese, fish, handsew ing needles, etc., were removed from open general license. Nearly 50 items were removed f r om the world O.G.L. list and retained only on the "soft" cu r rency license. The system of f ree ly licensing cer ta in imports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 193 June 19 The export of mus tard oil, wh ich was sub ject to quota restrictions, was placed on the f r ee licensing list. August 5 A new Indo-Pakistan trade agreement was signed, on the basis of which O.G.L. No. XXVI to cover imports f rom Pak is tan, and O.G.L. No. 5 to cover exports to Pakistan, were later issued. October 15 The import policy in respect of 61 items, on wh ich the policy decision had been reserved, wras announced. Imports of a numb er of commodities, such as rad io sets, cycles and cycle spare parts, sa fe ty razor blades, porce la in, etc., were proh ib i ted, wh i le those of mach ine screws, canned or bo t t led vegetable p roduc ts and f r u it ju ice s, w r i t ing and p r in t ing paper, etc., were cu r ta i led. The policy for the rema in ing 30 items was announced on November 15. December 1 Quota restrictions on the export of linseed oil wrere removed. December 31 The import policy for the period J anu a ry - June 1953 was announced. Quotas for more than 70 per cent of the items remained unchanged, while most cuts in import quotas made during the previous ha lf-year period were either partially or fu l ly restored. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Origin and Essential Features IRAN Exchange restrictions were originally introduced in Iran in February 1930. Recent m a jor revisions were those of December 27, 1951, when restrictions were sharply intensified, and April 4, 1952, when a dual cer t if ica te rate system was reintroduced. Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, exchange licenses for cer ta in nonp roh ib i ted impor ts and non t rade payments, and a mu l t ip le currency prac t ice consisting of two fixed o f f ic ial rates and two fluctuating exchange ce r t i f ica te rates. Exchange receipts in general must be surrendered, but exporters to countries whose cur- rencies are not accepted for the settlement of their fore ign exchange under tak ings may u t i l ize the ir export proceeds to make au thor ized imports. Negotiable exchange cer t if ica tes are granted in respect of 95 per cent of exchange surrendered and are required by importers 100 per cent to effect payments for au thor ized imports. Exchange Rate System The par value is Rials 32.25 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Rls 32.00 buying, Rls 32.50 selling, per US$1; they are applied to 5 per cent of export proceeds and to a few specified invisible trans- actions. The pu rchase and sale of two categories of exchange certifi- cates in a f ree market give rise to fluctuating rates wh i ch apply to 95 per cent of export proceeds su r rende red and to all paymen ts for imports (see Table of Exchange Rates, b e l ow ). There is also a special buying rate of Rls 41.00 for dollar invisibles and capital earnings. Administration of Control Exchange control is vested in the Exchange Control Committee, composed of representatives f rom the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank Melli Iran. Exchange licenses are issued by the Exchange Control Committee. All fo re ign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks, but exchange certificates are negotiated in a f ree market for such cer t if ica tes. The Ministry of Na t ional Economy de term ines the c lass i f ica t ion of com- modities imported and exported. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN 195 Prescription of Currency Payments for imports and invisibles must be made in specified currencies. Most payments to France, the Federal Repub l ic of Ger- many, Hunga ry, and Italy are made th rough c lear ing accounts. Exchange receipts must be obtained in a currency appropriate to the creditor country and o f fe red for sale to an authorized bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free ly permitted to ma in ta in accounts with the authorized banks in rials as well as in fore ign currencies. R ial accounts may be used only to effect payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for t rans fe rs abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of National Economy has proh ib i ted the import of a large number of goods. Goods on the prohibited list may, however, appear on special lists enabling their importation f rom countries with which Iran has special commercial agreements. Goods classified in Category 1 (essential) and Category 2 (less essential) may be imported f ree ly. In order to obtain the exchange required for the payment of these imports, the importer must pay the local currency equivalent at the off ic ial rate and, in addition, provide an appropriate exchange cer t if ica te. Importers of Category 2 goods must provide an exchange ce r t i f ica te in the corresponding currency derived f rom Category 2 exports, and importers of Category 1 goods must provide an exchange certificate in the correspond ing currency derived f rom exports in Category 1 or 2, or f rom the surrender of exchange derived f rom invisibles other than exchange sold by fore ign embassies, lega- tions, tourists, and other similar parties. The list of prohibited imports and the classification of free ly allowed imports are sub ject to altera- tion according to preva i l ing conditions. Imports of precious metals, such as silver, gold, and platinum, are permitted provided no exchange is transferred the re fo r; in such cases, an import license is not required. Certain other requirements must be met with regard to specific imports even when they are included in the categories of permissible imports. The importation of equipment for new fac tor ies or for the development of existing factories requires the approval of the Technical Committee of the Ministry of National Economy. Import permits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS for sugar, silkworm eggs, tobacco, paper for cigarettes, explosives, railway equipment, guns, and ammunition are norma l ly issued to only the state monopolies dealing in these items. Payments for Invisibles Exchange licenses may be issued by the Exchange Control Com- mittee for the purchase of exchange for certain invisible transactions not associated with trade. These include the expenses of Iranian students at universities abroad, for which exchange is authorized according to its availability, and the retransfer, within one year of the original transaction, of 50 per cent of exchange transferred to Iran in favor of foreign diplomats in Iran and sold to an authorized bank at the official rate. These authorized payments are made at the official rate of Rls 32.50. Travelers may take Rls 2,000 in Iranian banknotes with them when going abroad. Travelers of Iranian nationality may export foreign currency as authorized by the Exchange Control Committee. Alien travelers may not export fore ign currency in excess of the amount which they imported minus the amounts they have sold to authorized banks. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of some commodities is prohibited. Nonprohibited exports are classified in Category 1 (nonpriority exports) and Category 2 (exports wh ich are being encou raged ). The list of prohibited exports and the classifications of nonprohibited exports are subject to alterations accord ing to preva i l ing conditions. Exporters must sur- render the exchange proceeds of their exports to an authorized bank; they receive the local currency equivalent at the official rate and an exchange cer t if ica te for the f a ce va lue of 95 per cent of the surrendered exchange. Exporters of Category 1 commodities can sell this certifi- cate to importers of Category 1 (essential) commodities for payments in the same currency. Exporters of Category 2 commodities can sell this certificate to importers of either Category 1 or Category 2 commodities. The exporter may, within the one-month validity period of the exchange certificate, use it to obtain exchange for an authorized import, or he may sell the ce r t i f ica te in the cer t if ica te market at the prevailing rate. Exchange certificates may be transferred only once. An exchange certificate resulting f rom an export to a country with which Iran has concluded a payments agreement can be utilized only for imports from that country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN 197 Export receipts must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank w i th in 12 mon ths of the original export. The au tho r ized banks buy sterling, U.S. dollars, Swiss f r a n cs and, f rom time to time, other currencies, such as Ind ian rupees. When exports are sold for cu r- rencies wh ich the banks will not buy, the exporters may use the earned exchange to make purchases in the coun t ry of destination of the exports or in countries to wh ich the cu r rency concerned is transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts derived f r om invisible commerc ial transactions must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank at the o f f ic ial rate, and exchange certificates are issued for such exchange. These certificates may be utilized for the impo r ta t ion of Category 1 goods. Noncomme r- cial exchange sold to au thor ized banks by fore ign embassies, legations, tourists, and other similar parties is purchased only at o f f i c i al rates and does not qu a l i fy for exchange certificates. Travelers entering Iran may carry with them up to Rls 2,000 in Iranian banknotes and any amount in foreign currencies. Travelers of Iranian nationality must surrender their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized bank within 15 days a f ter their arrival in the country. Other travelers, dur ing their stay in Iran, may sell the ir exchange only to an au thor ized bank at the off ic ial rate. Capital Transfers of capital abroad requ ire the approval of the Exchange Control Committee, wh ich is given only in exceptional circumstances. Incom ing capital must be registered and o f fe red for sale to an au thor- ized bank at the o f f ic ial rate w i th in three days of receipt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (rials per U.S. dollar) Buying 32.00 (Official Rate) Registered capital; certain non-dollar in- visible earnings, including receipts f rom tourists and diplomats. Selling 32.50 (Official Rate) Government payments; diplomatic trans- fers; approved expenses of Iranian stu- dents. 41.001 Dollar invisibles and capital earnings. 83.5375 (Official Rate plus 95% at Fluc- tuating Certificate Rate) Category 1 exports. 81.0125 (Official Rate plus 95% at Fluc- tuating Second Certificate Rate) Category 2 exports. 86.75 (Official Rate plus Fluctuating Cer- tificate Rate) Category 1 imports. 87.25 (Official Rate plus Fluctuating Sec- ond Certificate Rate) Category 2 imports. No te: The actual certificate rates as at December 31, 1952 were Rls 54.25 and Rls 54.75 per US$1 for Categories 1 and 2, respec t ive ly. Changes during 1952 January 8 The Ministry of National Economy was permitted to grant au thor- ization for the import of lump and g ranu la ted sugar by u t i l iz ing free foreign exchange or through bar ter agreements. January 29 The conclusion of private ba r ter agreements with nonresidents was approved. The Bank Melli Iran was au thor ized, with the consent of the Minister of Na t ional Economy, to open an account in rials in the name of account holders in countries that have not conc luded pay- 1 This special rate was introduced on December 3, 1951. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN 199 ments agreements with Iran or with which agreements providing for private barter agreements have been concluded. April 4 Under new trade and exchange regu la t ions in troduced for the twelve months March 21, 1952-March 20, 1953, exports and imports permitted for regu lar trade were each c lass if ied in two categories. Exporters would receive on surrender of the ir export proceeds, in addition to the rials equivalent at the o f f ic ial rate, an exchange certificate which could be used to obtain exchange for an au thor ized import or sold, th rough an au thor ized bank or in the cer t if ica te ma rke t, to importers at the prevailing rate. Exporters of Category 1 exports would receive an exchange cer t if ica te wh ich could be sold to importers of Category 1 imports. Similarly, exporters of Category 2 exports wou ld receive an exchange ce r t i f ica te wh ich could be sold to importers of Category 1 or 2 imports. Recipients of exchange f rom inv is ib les could use such exchange for payment of imports of essential goods. August 28 The amount of Iran ian banknotes wh ich cou ld be taken in or out of the country by travelers was raised f rom His 1,000 to Rls 2,000. November 11 It was announced that the Bank Melli Iran would issue exchange certificates (see April 4, above) to exporters and others for only 95 per cent of their surrendered exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Iraq on November 24, 1941 by Exchange Control Law No. 71 of 1941, which was superseded in 1950 by Exchange Control Law No. 18 of 1950. As in other Sterling Area countries, the Iraqi exchange control system is modeled a f ter the U.K. system, mod if ied to suit local requirements. It is based on the principle of surrender of fo re ign exchange receipts (w i th a few minor exceptions) and their a l loca t ion by the control authorities to payments for goods, services, and other transactions on the basis of priority of need and the "hardness" of the currency involved. However, the oil companies, under special arrangements, have complete autonomy in the ir exchange transactions, provided they are effected at official rates. Imports f rom hard currency countries are restricted on the basis of annual quotas; but imports f rom soft currency countries are, with few exceptions, freely permitted. Certain exports to neighboring countries are exempt f rom exchange surrender requirements, and import licenses are granted for certain goods f rom so ft currency areas provided the importer makes his own arrangements for the amount of fore ign exchange necessary to order the goods from abroad. Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi Dinar 1 = US$2.80. In the official market, most transactions are effected in sterling. For certain specified cur- rencies, licensed dealers are authorized to deal on the basis of London rates. For the U.S. dollar, the National Bank of Iraq quotes an official rate at which it will sell exchange to licensed dealers to cover the excess of their dollar requirements over their purchases from customers or other banks. An additional exchange rate arises from the sale of the exchange proceeds of certain exports to neighboring countries (wh ich do not have to be surrendered) to importers of certain goods f rom soft currency countries. Administration of Control Exchange Control Law No. 18 of 1950 entrusts the Board of Admin- istration of the National Bank with all powers and responsibility in connection with exchange control. However, in practice, the Board has delegated most of its administrative authority to the Directorate 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 201 of Foreign Exchange of the Bank. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected th rough licensed dealers unless especially authorized by the Bank. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Director General of Imports. Prescription of Currency All transactions w i th nonresidents are sub ject to prescription of currency requirements. Transactions w i th most non-Sterling Area countries are governed by the terms of sterling payments agreements and monetary agreements entered in to between those countries and the United Kingdom and ava i lab le to the whole Sterling Area. Pay- ments must be effec ted either in acceptable fore ign currency appro- priate to the country concerned or in sterling th rough an app rop r ia te account in London or th rough an appropriate d inar account of a nonresident. Nonresident Accounts The exchange control system designates nonresident accounts ac- cording to the fore ign residence of the account holder. The regula- tions governing the operation of these accounts are similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Imports and Import Payments The import control policy aims at allowing adequate importation of all essential goods for domestic consumption and development pur- poses and permitting the import of nonessentials as far as exchange is available. However, certain imports are prohibited partly for pro- tective reasons. They include a variety of agricultural products, such as sesame seed, cotton seed, and their oils, and the products of certain newly established industries, such as beer, cement, a lum inum ware, alcohol, and hides. All imports f rom hard currency countries requ ire licenses wh ich are granted in accordance with an annual program spec ify ing both the category of the goods and their respective amounts or quantities. For imports from soft currency areas, both the control policy and the licensing procedure are more liberal. The licensing procedure does not apply to imports f rom soft currency countries except certain goods specially listed and goods admitted only with self-provided exchange. All payments are subject to prescription of currency requirements. For goods subject to license, the licensed dealer can make the exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license; for goods not subject to license, exchange is provided on application. The licensed dealers do not, of course, provide ex- change for the importation of goods licensed under the condition that the importer provide his own exchange. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange granted for payments for invisibles is normally restricted to traveling, educa- tional and medical expenses abroad, insurance premiums, and fre ight on exports if carried on a c. & f. or c . i .f. basis. Exchange is also pro- vided for the t ran s fer of interest and prof i ts if the amounts applied for are considered reasonable. Foreign exchange is allocated within certain limits to fore ign na- tionals resident in Iraq, for fam i ly ma in tenance in their home coun- tries and foreign travel. The allocation of fore ign exchange to nationals of Iraq for these purposes is sub ject to administrative decision on individual applications. For residents traveling abroad, there is a basic allowance of ID 100 per person per month for not more than three months in any one year. Travelers may take out only ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes. Iraqis traveling abroad may take with them the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are prohibited, and exports of essential goods in short supply require licenses. Commodities which may not be exported f rom Iraq are livestock; certain food s tu f fs in short supply, including dairy produce, cereals, and f r u i t; raw materials in short supply, includ- ing cement and scrap metals. Generally, goods imported into Iraq may not be re-exported. Commodities on the prohibited list, how- ever, may be exported if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. Exporters of all commodities must declare their exports in order to ensure that foreign exchange proceeds are received. Prescription of currency requirements are applied to the surrender of export pro- ceeds, but not in respect of certain commodities exported to neigh- boring countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 203 Foreign cu r rency, inc lud ing notes, may be b rought into Iraq by trave lers in un l im i t ed amoun ts provided they are declared to the I raqi customs, and the unused amount may be re-exported. Travelers may br ing in only ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes. Capital In general, all t r an s f e rs of capital abroad requ i re special exchange con trol app rova l. Incom ing cap i tal f u n ds must be deposited w i th licensed dealers. The Na t ional Bank may au tho r i ze the deposit of incoming cap i tal funds in the ir original currency wh ich may be con- verted la ter in to d inars at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange. The repa tr ia- tion of fo re ign capital invested in Iraq is sub ject to the approval of the Na t ional Bank. Changes during 1952 January 3 The National Bank notified licensed dealers that it would quote an o f f ic ial ra te for U.S. dollars at wh ich they could obtain their do l lar requirements over and above purchases f rom their customers or other banks. The commissions which the banks might charge their customers in respect of various transactions were specified. January 15 Exports of whea t, rice, sesame grain, and flour were fo rb idden (owing, it was stated, to sharp increases in certain food p r ices ), and export licenses a lready granted but unused were w i thd rawn. May Certain changes were announced in the list of commodities subject to export restrictions. August 18 The licensing procedure and quota l im i ta t ions were abolished for all imports (except certain luxury goods) f r om soft currency countries. The allocation of foreign exchange to importers according to the category in wh ich they were classified and registered was also discon- tinued. September The procedure for ob ta in ing export licenses was s imp l i f ied; licensed dealers were permitted to approve cer ta in types of licensing applica- tions w i thout re fe rence to the N a t i o n al Bank as p rev iou s ly requ ired. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Origin and Essential Features Controls on in terna t ional transactions were introduced in I ta ly on September 29, 1931. They were established on a more systematic basis in 1934, when the compulsory surrender of all foreign exchange and foreign assets was in t roduced; in 1939, with the prohibition of imports w i thout a license; and in 1940, w i th the p roh ib i t ion of exports w i thout a license. The in t roduc t ion in 1946 of a "free" ma rket for receipts in U.S. dollars, Swiss f ranc s, and pounds s ter l ing resulted in a dual rate system for these currencies and in broken cross rates. Subsequent changes led to the elimination of the broken cross rate for pounds sterling and other currencies and in the ac tual un i f i c a t ion of the ex- change rate system. In connection w i th pa r t ic ipa t ion in EPU, Italy has g radua l ly enlarged the number of commodities wh ich can be imported without a license f rom OEEC countries. The general regulation that the import of commodities and services must be authorized is waived for a short list of commodities whatever their origin, and for the great m a j o r i ty of commodities originating in EPU countries and associated territories. The general regulation that the export of commodities must be authorized is waived except for those commodities included in a list wh ich differentiates to a cer ta in degree between exports paid for in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or free ly transferab le Swiss f rancs and other exports. All foreign exchange must be surrendered, but 50 per cent of receipts in U.S. or Canadian dollars can be retained by the recipient and either sold or used for authorized transactions during a period of 60 days. Payments abroad for authorized current transactions are approved provided they are effected in accordance with the methods laid down in the Italian Exchange Control instructions. Payments abroad for capital transactions must be authorized by the monetary authorities except in a few cases. Exchange Rate System No par value for the I ta l ian lira has been established with the Fund. The exchange rates between the l ira and other currencies are related to the exchange rate for the U.S. do l lar, wh ich is determined on the 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 205 basis of daily "free" ma rket quo ta t ions. These quo ta t ions result from the negotiation of 50 per cent of do l lar proceeds f rom current account transac t ions wh ich can be re ta ined by the rec ip ient for a period of 60 days. Du r ing such a period the rec ip ien t, among other things, can sell the exchange so retained to impor ters, who can use it for au thor ized import transac t ions. The average of the closing market rates for the U.S. dollar on the Rome and M i lan "free" marke ts is recognized as the o f f ic ial ra te of the day. The da i ly o f f ic ial ra te for the Canadian do l l ar is established in the same way. To establish the off ic ial rate for o ther currenc ies the lira-U.S. do l l ar o f f ic ial rate is related to the gold par i ty of the other cu r rency w i th respect to the U.S. dollar. Where no gold con tent is fixed for the o ther cu r rency, the off ic ial rate is some- t imes established in a paymen ts agreemen t. Du r ing 1952, the rate for the U.S. dollar remained between Lit 624 and Lit 625 per U.S. do l la r. This steadiness in the U.S. do l lar rate results f r om the l im i ta t ion of the demand for dollars in the "free" ma rket ach ieved th rough the l icens ing policy, and the readiness of the o f f ic ial I ta l ian Exchange O f f ice to buy do l la rs at the o f f ic ial rate f rom ho lde rs of the re ta ined 50 per cent of exchange proceeds. Exchange Control Territory Exchange con t rol is not exercised over paymen ts f rom the I ta l ian Repub l ic to the Repub l ic of San Mar ino, the territory of Somaliland under I ta l ian adm in i s t ra t ion, and Zone "A" of the Free Territory of Trieste. Administration of Control The exchange con trol system is operated by the Italian Exchange Off ice (U f f i c io I ta l iano dei C amb i) on the basis of ins truc t ions issued by the M in is try of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange, in c lud ing those negotiated on the "free" marke t, pass through banks au thor ized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Incom ing and ou tgo ing paymen ts for transac t ions w i th countries of the do l lar area or w i th coun tr ies w i th wh ich there is no payments agreement must be made in U.S. do l la rs or Canad ian do l la rs. In com ing and ou tgo ing paymen ts for t ransac t ions w i th countries w i th w h i ch the re is a paymen ts agreement must be made according to the me thods and in the cu r rency established by the agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Imports and Import Payments Most imports f rom EPU countries and their associated territories * do not require impo rt licenses. Most imports f rom other countries— in respect of wh ich payment has to be made through the accounts established by paymen ts agreements or, in the absence of such an agreement, in U.S. dollars —require import licenses. In the case of countries w i th wh ich no payments agreement exists, and which are not prepared to make payments in U.S. dollars, imports are privately arranged on a ba r ter basis ("private compensations" and "transactions on a reciprocal basis") and these must be individually authorized. Private impor ters of goods and services are authorized to acquire U.S. or Canad ian do l lars needed for payment of such items either on the "free" market at the market rate or f rom the Exchange Office at the off ic ial rate. Owing to the achieved steadiness of the market rate, in 1952 importers bought exchange at v ir tua l ly the same rate, irrespec- tive of its source. Foreign exchange in other currencies is always acquired at the o f f ic ial rate. For all au thor ized imports the exchange control authorities grant exchange or approve import payment fo r thw i th for the necessary amount and in acco rdance w i th the established methods of payment (see section on Prescr ip t ion of Currency, above ). Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts abroad for inv is ib les requ i re licenses wh ich are issued by the exchange con trol au tho r i t ies. Foreign exchange is f ree ly granted for expenses inc iden tal to t rade transactions. Holders of "50 per cent accounts" (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) are entitled to use f ree ly U.S. and Canad ian dollars available in these accounts for such expenses. For var ious other types of expenditures, such as travel for business and tourism, health and education, patents and trademarks, the au thor ized banks are permitted to approve pay- men ts abroad up to var ious specified limits. Tourists traveling to EPU countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange to the value of Lit 200,000 per person per year. Remittances to cover health and education expenses in EPU countries can be authorized by the banks up to the value of Lit 150,000 per person per year. 1 These are listed as Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ice land, I re land, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 207 Persons t rave l ing abroad may take w i th them a max imum of Lit 30,000 in bankno tes of d enom in a t ions not exceeding Lit 1,000. Favorable trea tment is accorded to earnings on investments in Italy made in free ly t rans fe rab le Swiss f rancs or in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). Favorable trea tment is also accorded to earnings on investments of residents of EPU countries. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may ma in ta in operating accounts in U.S. and Canad ian dollars, f r e e ly t rans fe rab le Swiss f ranc s, and pounds sterling. Exports and Export Proceeds Cer ta in commodities listed in a special tab le (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. This requ i rement is waived for a few com- mod i t ies if they are pa id for in U.S. or Canad ian dollars or f ree ly t r an s f e r ab le Swiss f ranc s. Special credit fac i l i t ies are provided to promote exports to be paid for in U.S. or Canad ian dollars, and certain specified tax rebates are granted on a few commodities when they are exported for payment in U.S. or Canad ian dollars. Exchange receipts in all fo re ign currencies must be surrendered entirely. F i f ty per cent of exchange receipts in U.S. or Canad ian dollars are credited by the banks to the rec ip ient in a "50 per cent accoun t" and can be re ta ined for a period of 60 days. Dur ing such a period the sums in such accounts can be disposed of by the recipient in one of the f o l l ow i ng ways: (1) they can be used for authorized paymen ts; (2) they can be sold on the f r ee market ( the buyer must use them for an import or an au tho r ized payment a b r o a d ); or (3) they can be sold to the Exchange Off ice. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are sub ject to the same surrender require- ments as receipts f rom exports, except that sh ipp ing and insurance companies and travel and fo rw a rd ing agencies can keep operating accounts in U.S. and Canad ian do l lars, f ree ly t ran s fe rab le Swiss f r an c s, and pounds sterling. Persons may b r ing in I ta l ian bankno tes in any amoun t, but not in denominations exceeding Lit 1,000. Capital As a general rule, inwa rd and ou tward cap i tal movements requ i re approva l. Special regu la t ions are in e f f e ct for t ran s fe rs of fo re ign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS capital and income the re f rom derived f rom investments made with freely transferab le Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, or Canadian do l la rs since April 7, 1948. Transfer abroad in the currency originally surrendered is freely granted for (1) earnings f rom such investments up to one per cent in excess of the legal rate of interest (cu r ren t ly 5 per c e n t ); (2) sums deriving f rom the disinvestment of capital, with the limit of the exchange originally transferred f rom abroad, and provided that the transfer is not requested earlier than two years a f t er the time of the investment and does not exceed 50 per cent of the capital for each succeeding period of two yea rs; and (3) sums corresponding to the exchange invested in machinery for industrial plants, provided that the transfer is not requested earlier than five years a f ter the time of investment. Special favo rab le treatment is accorded for the t ran s fer of lire balances held in "special accounts" by residents of France, Switzer- land, and the United Kingdom. Banknotes Banks are au thor ized to buy banknotes in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, and Swiss f rancs at the o f f ic ial rates, and bankno tes in other currencies at a price correspond ing to the rate of exchange for such notes in foreign markets. Changes during 1952 January 15 Changes were made in the list of items the export of wh ich is subject to license. March 8 The authorized banks were instructed by the Exchange Office to cease buying French f r anc notes at the official rate, and were allowed to buy such notes on the basis of the Zur ich f r ee market quotation converted into lire at the o f f ic ial Swiss f r a nc rate of exchange in Italy. April 1 The "liberalization" measures of November 1, 1951 and the reduc- tion of 10 per cent in import duties w i th regard to commodities origi- nating in EPU countries were extended un t il December 31, 1952. April 8 The list of items sub ject to export license was divided into two parts, thus establishing some d i f fe rence in treatment between exports paid ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 209 for in f ree ly t rans fe rab le Swiss f rancs, U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars and other exports. April 24 The regulation according to wh ich Italian importers could be pro- vided with loans in EPU currencies at specially reduced interest rates in order to encourage imports f r om EPU countries was extended to October 31, 1952, and the upper limit for these fac i l i t ies was raised. May 16 Certain commodities were added to the list of items that could be imported w i thout an import license when paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars. August 25 A few commodities were excluded f rom the list of those requiring an export license; other commodities were added to the list. October 22 Some rebates of the turnover tax were accorded for exports of com- modities paid for in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, or free ly transfer- ab le Swiss francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls, ma in ly intended to prevent a flight of capital, were initially introduced in Japan on Ju ly 1, 1932. They were rendered more stringent on Janua ry 8, 1937, and gradua l ly increased later. A f t er the war, Japan's t rade and exchange transactions were subject to the strict control of the Supreme Commander for the A l l ied Powers (SCAP). The exchange rates established in the immed ia te postwar years were of l im i ted use and settlements for trade abroad gave rise to mu l t ip le rates. A un i ta ry exchange ra te was established in Ap r il 1949. An entirely revised fo re ign t rade and exchange control law was put into e f fect December 1, 1949. The Japanese Gove rnment took over the administration of control f r om SCAP —the control of export trade f rom December 1, 1949 and the con trol of import t rade and invisibles f rom Janua ry 1, 1950. Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are e f fec ted, accord ing to the te r r i to ry related to the transac t ion, in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, or "accoun t ing" dollars th rough pre- scribed channels. Practically all impor ts are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing and registration, and almost all paymen ts on account of invisibles requ ire ind iv idual licenses. All exports are sub ject to regis- tration requirement, and ce r ta in exports are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Export proceeds as well as exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered, but certain percentages of proceeds in U.S. dollars acc ru ing f rom specified exports can be used for spec if ic purposes. All capital transac t ions and t rans fe rs hav ing an exchange control aspect are in p r inc ip le sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. However, f o r- eign investments w i th in the terms of a fo re ign investment law are accorded p r e f e r e n t i al trea tment as to the repa t r ia t ion of cap i tal and income. Exchange Rate System Japan does not have an agreed par value.1 The official par i ty is Yen 360 = US$1, and the off ic ial rates are ¥ 358.95 buying, ¥ 361.05 selling, per US$1.2 Exchange rates are un i fo rm. 1 E f fec t ive May 11, 1953, an in i t ial par va lue for the Japanese Yen was estab- lished at Yen 360 per US$1. 2 These rates were revised Janua ry 12, 1953 to Yen 359.20 buying, Yen 360.80 selling, per US$1. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 211 Administration of Control A Ministerial Counc il whose ma in f u n c t i on is the d r a f t i ng of ex- change budgets is the highest con trol au tho r i ty on the policy level. The Ministry of In te rna t ional Trade and Indus try carries out exchange and trade control policy in respect of merchand ise transactions, wh i le the Ministry of F inance — through its Foreign Exchange Bureau and the Foreign Exchange Council —does so in respect of prescription of currency and me thod of se t t lemen t, paymen ts for nonme rchand ise transactions, and cap i tal transac t ions and t rans fe rs. The M in is t ry of Finance also has the r ight to de term ine exchange rates. The Bank of Japan and au tho r i z ed banks ca r ry out the controls on the techn ical adm in is tra t ive level. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of me rchand ise transactions and invisibles are effec ted in (1) sterling in respect of the Sterling A r e a; (2) U.S. "accounting" dollars th rough accoun ts established in acco rdance with payments agreements with A rgen t ina, Braz i l, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, F in land, French Mone ta ry A rea, French Indo-Ch ina, Indo- nesia, Republic of Korea, Ne ther lands Mone tary Area, Ph i l ipp ine Repub l ic, Sweden, Taiwan, and Tha i land ( the "open account" coun- tries) ; and (3) U.S. dollars in respect to all other countries and mone- ta ry areas. In add i t ion, paymen ts are e f fec ted in a prescribed techn ical and bank ing fo rm and channel wh ich d i f f er accord ing to var ious char- acteristic f e a tu r es and the category of t ransac t ions involved. Devia- tions f rom these prescription requ i remen ts are sub ject to an ind iv idual license f rom the con t rol au thor i t ies. Nonresident Accounts 1. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Nonresidents may be au tho r- ized ind iv idua l ly to keep non res ident yen deposit accounts designated accord ing to the res idence of the account holder. Debits to these accoun ts for the personal needs of the account holder or for paymen ts in yen w i thout compensa t ion to a resident or to a non res ident of the same coun try as the account ho lder are f r e e ly au tho r ized, but debits to these accounts for conversion in to fo re ign cu r rency requ i re an ind iv idual license. 2. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. As a measure to f a c i l i t a te the app l ica t ion of exchange con t ro l, spec if ied residents and nonres i- den ts are au tho r ized to keep deposit accoun ts w i th banks in U.S. do l la rs or pounds s te r l ing. In the case of residents, these fac i l i t ies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS are confined to shipping companies, airlines, tourist services, and insurance companies. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports are subject to individual import licensing and, where payment is to be made, to registration with an authorized bank ("bank certification") for prescription of currency purposes. Import licenses are granted rather freely for specific types of goods, e.g., foods tuffs, basic raw materials, and specified machinery and equipment. Many of the authorized imports are planned in the exchange budget and communicated through "Import Announcements." These include (1) imports for which licenses are issued up to exchange quota limits for specified commodities f rom certain areas ("automatic approval" p rocedu re ); (2) import licenses which are distributed through drawing if the value of applications exceeds the established import quota ("first come, first served" p rocedu re ); (3) specified imports for which an exchange allocation must be obtained prior to the issuance of an import license. Authorized imports, not listed in the "Import Announcements", are such items as operating supplies and maintenance materials required for export or essential domestic production, imports considered necessary for the fu l f i l lment of trade agreements, and imports through compensation arrangements or under the "Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Allocation System". Other imports authorized outside the above arrangements include imports not requiring payment and those imported for processing and re-exportation. Licenses are issued by authorized banks for imports covered by "Import Announcements," while the Ministry of International Trade and Industry issues licenses for other imports or when the proposed payment is not in accordance with the prescribed method of settlement. Applicants for import licenses issued within the framework of "Import Announcements" must make a deposit, the amount of which is calculated by multiplying the value of the intended import by a coefficient that d i f fe rs for various categories of goods. The deposit is returned a f ter the goods have been imported or if the import transac- tion is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. Exchange is automatically available for authorized imports requir- ing an exchange allocation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 213 Payments for Invisibles Con trac ts for specified services are sub j e ct to ind iv idual licensing, e.g., services between res iden ts giving rise to fo re ign c la imab le assets, services between res iden ts and nonres iden ts when payment is to be e f fec ted by a non s tanda rd me thod of payment or over a longer per iod than th ree mon ths. Paymen ts a re sub ject to ind iv idual l icen s ing; however, paymen ts considered as pa rt of a transaction wh ich has been au tho r ized can be f r e e ly e f fec ted. Paymen ts on account of inc iden tal costs in respect of a u t h o r i z ed impo r ts and exports and spec if ied ca te- gories of t rans fe rs —e .g ., those in connec t ion w i th insurance, sh ipp ing, e tc . —a re f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed. Res iden ts can take out of Japan ¥ 2,000 in Japanese cu r rency to be spent only on Japanese vessels. App l ica- tions to take la rger amoun ts are considered on a case-to-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll exports are sub j e ct to reg i s t ra t ion w i th an au tho r ized bank ("bank ce r t i f ica t ion") in order to en fo r ce the requ i remen ts concern- ing the prescr ip t ion of cu r rency and the su r r end er of proceeds. The expor ta t ion of 32 groups of commod i t ie s, p rec ious me ta ls, goods ex- ported for cons ignment or u n d er processing or compensa t ion con t rac ts are sub j e ct to ind iv idu al licensing. Export proceeds have to be sur- rendered w i th in ten days f r om the da te of th e ir acqu is i t ion or repatria- tion. However, exporters are pe rm i t ted to use th rough s imp l if ied procedures for spec if ic purposes 5 per cen t, 10 per cent, or 15 per cent of the ir proceeds in U.S. do l la rs (o th er than "accoun t ing" do l la rs) acc ru ing f r om spec if ied exports acco rd ing to commod i ty. These pur- poses are listed as fo l low s: t rave l ing and l iv ing expenses abroad re- lated to the promotion of fo re ign trade, expenses of overseas b ranch offices, impor ts ( i n c l u d i ng re la ted inc iden tal costs) needed for the promo t ion of exports and /or econom ic recovery, imports of bona fide samples, catalogues, f inanc ial d irec tor ies, and other s im i lar t rade pub l ica t ions. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts by the s t and a rd m e thods of se t t lement may be accepted w i thout a l icense. However, c o n t r a c ts for spec if ied services are sub- j e ct to ind iv idu al l icens ing, e.g., services be tween residents giving rise to fo re ign c la imab le assets, serv ices when payment is to be received by a nons tanda rd me thod. Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be su r rende red. Residents can b r i ng in to Japan in Japanese cu r r en cy any unspent ba lance of the amount wh ich they lega l ly took ou t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Capital All purchases of stocks, debentures, or investment trust ce r t i f ica tes are sub ject to an ind iv idual license if rem i t tance of income or p r in- cipal is desired. However, stocks in the fo rm of stock dividends on earned surplus or reva lua t ion of assets may be free ly acqu i red; but application for rem i t tance r igh ts must be made within three months f rom the da te of acquisition. Such purchases can be effec ted against the yen proceeds arising f rom the sale of fo re ign exchange. Proceeds f rom the sale of debentures b e fo re ma tu r i ty may not be reinvested. The p r inc ipal and cap i tal gain f rom shares of stock, wh e th er pu r- chased or received as stock d iv idends, may be w i t h d r awn in five equal installments, two years a f t er the original acquisition. For stocks pu r- chased w i th proceeds f rom the sale of other stocks, the two -year period runs f rom the date of the last purchase. In the event of cap i tal loss, only the ac tual proceeds may be rem i t ted. For deben tu res, the pr inc ipal may be entirely- rem i t ted at ma tu r i ty only. The pr inc ipal in respect of investment t rust cer t if ica tes may be remitted at the time of their redemption in five equal annual install- ments. Purchase rights on stocks may be sold if the issuing company gives its consent, or the va lue of the rights can be realized by selling the stocks with rights and pu rchas ing the same stocks w i thout rights or other stocks. This a r rangement cons t i tu tes a p r e f e r e n t i al t rea tment of foreign investors, as under the Japanese commerc ial code stock pu rchase rights may not be sold. A ll o ther cap i tal t ransac t ions and t r an s f e rs hav ing an exchange control aspect are sub ject to ind iv idu al license. Changes during 1952 February Rates for f o rw a rd exchange t ransac t ions were fixed: selling U.S. dollars and sterling —¥ 0.10 and ¥ 0.28, respectively, over spot, and buying ¥ 0.10 and ¥ 0.56, respectively, under spot, for each ten days fo rwa rd. July 10 The "Export Promotion Foreign Exchange A l loca t ion System" by wh ich exporters were perm i t ted to use through s imp l i f ied procedures a certain propor t ion of exchange for spec if ic purposes was amended to be app l icab le to the proceeds in U.S. do l lars (o th er than "account- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 215 ing" dollars) accruing f rom specified exports. The percentages were 5 per cent, 10 per cent, and 15 per cent, accord ing to commodity. The arrangements in respect of export proceeds in other currencies were suspended. July Importers were forb idden to bring in coal and raw cotton f rom the dollar area unless they also imported a certain percentage of these products f rom the Sterling Area and /or "Open Account Areas" ("the linked system"). July 31 The Foreign Exchange Bureau in the Ministry of Finance was established and took over the func t ions of the liquidated Foreign Exchange Control Board and the Foreign Investment Commission. A Foreign Exchange Council was created as a subord ina te of the Ministry of Finance. The law concerning fore ign investment underwent considerable re- vision, by wh ich foreign investors received additional benefits, e.g., the way was opened for guaranteeing the remittance of principal of stocks and for switching between stocks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM Origin and Essential Features T ran s jo rdan as pa rt of the Manda ted Territory of Palestine became a member of the Sterling Area on September 21, 1939 and exchange res tr ic t ions were in troduced. On Feb rua ry 22, 1948, owing to the impend ing te rm ina t ion of the British M and a te for Palestine, this area ceased to be a te r r i to ry w i th in the Sterling Area. On Ju ly 1, 1950, the Hashemite K ingdom of the Jo rdan was inc luded in the S ter l ing Area. As a member of the Sterling A rea, Jo rdan imposes a system of ex- change con trol s im i lar to that imposed by other members of the Sterling Area. There exists, however, local con trol over paymen ts to and f r om t e r r i to r i es bo th inside and outside the Sterling Area. Res tr ic t ions are exercised th rough import licensing and exchange perm it requ i remen ts to ob ta in exchange at the o f f ic ial ra te. Fees are payab le on these import licenses. A tax is applied to payments for inv is ib le t ransac t ions toge ther w i th an Air Force Tax ca lcu la ted at 100 per cent on the o r ig inal tax. Export proceeds must no rma l ly be r ep a t r i- ated w i t h in six mon ths of export. Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the Jo rdan d i n ar has been established \v i th the Fund. O f f i c i al ra tes are US$2.82 buy ing, US$2.78 se l l ing, per JD 1. The o f f ic ial ra tes are app l icab le to most t r ade t ransac t ions, but taxes app l i c ab le to paymen ts for inv is ib les yield e f f e c t ive selling rates (see Tab le of Exchange Ra tes, b e l ow ). Uno f f ic ial exchange transac t ions take p lace, but e f fo r ts a re be ing d irec ted towa rd suppressing them. Administration of Control The adm in i s t ra t ion of exchange con t rol is exercised by the Exchange Con trol D ep a r tm ent of the M in is t ry of F inance under the responsi- b i l i ty of the Con t ro l ler of Cu r rency. Exchange is au toma t ica l ly granted for p aym ent of almost a ll im p o r ts au tho r i z ed by the D i rec tor of Im- po r ts and Exports. Prescription of Currency Prescr ip t ion of cu r rency requ i remen ts are observed on the indi- v idual impo rt licenses and, in gene ra l, fo l low the pa t te rn of the United K ingdom's exchange control system. The same principles apply to export proceeds as a condition of export. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEM ITE K INGDOM 217 Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts sub ject to prior approval of the Controller of Currency when they are satisfied that the accounts are acquired for legitimate business purposes and pro- vided they are fed by the app rop r ia te funds. Transfers between non- resident accounts of d i f f e r ent countries or mone tary areas, and transfers f rom resident accounts to nonresident accounts, requ ire the approval of the Controller of Currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be carried out only by registered importers. Registered importers receive fo re ign exchange allocations in hard and in soft currencies * on the basis of the Government's import program for each commodity group. The Director of Imports and Exports issues licenses for individual imports on the basis of these allocations. An impor ter who has been granted a license to import goods may arrange w i th his bank to apply on his beha lf to the Controller of Currency for permission to open an irrevocab le documen tary credit within two months a f t er issuance of the import license, or he may order the goods and arrange with his bank to apply for exchange a f ter the shipping documents arrive in Amman, or he may clear the goods on a r r ival in Amman on the presentation of the relevant import license and arrange for his bank to submit the customs dec lara t ion to the Controller of Currency and apply for exchange. In all cases an exchange permit must be issued by the Controller of Currency in order to obtain foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate. Import licenses w i thout exchange are issued for vegetables, f ru i t s, and locally made clothing imported in small quantities f rom Lebanon and Sy r ia; otherwise exchange permits are always granted when an import license has been obtained. License fees amounting to 2 per cent for so ft currency imports and 6 per cent for hard currency imports (this includes an Air Force Tax of 100 per cent on the basic license f e e s) are collected on import licenses. Payments for Invisibles A tax of 2 per cent for so ft currency payments and 6 per cent for ha rd currency payments ( inc lud ing an Air Force Tax of 100 per cent on this tax) is applied on all payments for invisibles. 1 Canadian and U.S. dollars are considered hard currenc ies; all others are considered soft. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange is made ava i lab le for paymen ts of the fo l low ing types of invisibles: income of nonres iden ts; savings up to JD 5,000 of fo re ign nationals who intend to re tu rn to the ir own coun t ry; remittances to re fugee dependents outside Lebanon and Syria, the living expenses of Jordan nationals abroad, travel expenses of Jordan residents abroad (except to Syria and Lebanon ), education expenditures, and medical treatment up to certain l im i ts; business expenses abroad, insurance and insurance prem iums in acco rdance w i th special regulations. Persons leav ing Jo rdan for Lebanon or Syria may take out up to JD 100, and persons leav ing for any other coun try, JD 20. Persons leaving Jo rdan may take out the equivalent of JD 10 in banknotes, other than those of the Jo rdan Currency Board, and any amount of notes previously brought into the country. Remittances to ne ighbo r- ing A rab countries may be made by postal or money o rder up to JD 5 per month per person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not allowed to be shipped unless the exporter has satis- fied the Controller of Currency as to the manner in which payment for the goods will be received. Exporters are norma l ly required to repa- triate the value of exports within six months of export. Exemption f rom this repatriation requirement is granted only for commercial samples or for cha r i tab le purposes or for g i f ts not exceeding JD 10 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Persons en te r ing Jo rdan f rom Lebanon or Syria may b r ing in a maximum of JD 100—those en ter ing f rom other countries, JD 20— in domestic currency. All persons may b r ing in any amount in fo re ign currencies. Capital Capital may be imported f ree ly. Cap i tal exports requ ire approva l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE K INGDOM 219 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (U.S. dollars per dinar) Buying 2.82 All incoming payments. Selling 2.782 Government payments and imports au- thorized at the official rate. 2.7244 ($2.78 with 2% Tax} Invisibles authorized at the official rate to soft currency countries. 2.6132 ($2.78 with 6% Tax) Invisibles authorized at the official rate to hard currency countries. No t e: This table does not include rates of the uno f f ic ial ma rke t, th rough which certain imports may be paid, sub ject to the payment of customs fines based on the currency area f rom which the goods or ig ina te —but see foo tno te 3. Changes during 1952 January 9 From this date, fo re ign exchange was made available to individual importers in sem iannual a l lo tmen ts on the basis of exchange quotas allocated in ha rd and so ft currenc ies to each commod i ty group in the Government's import program. The system of c lass i fy ing importers into grades and classes on the basis of their records of importations du r ing a base period was dropped. July 1 A list of nonessential commodities was published for which import licenses would no longer be issued and off ic ial exchange would not be made available. Exchange for the importation of these commodities was to be obtained f rom the uno f f ic ial market and a customs fine paid on arrival of these commodities; this fine was 25 per cent for com- modities originating from ha rd currency countries and 15 per cent for commodities originating f rom soft currency countries.3 2 The $2.78 selling rate does not include the license fee (and incorporated Air Force Tax) amounting to 2 per cent for imports f rom soft currency countries and 6 per cent for imports f rom hard currency countries (see section on Imports and Impo rt Payments, above). a Effective April 17, 1953, the import of goods w i thout a license was proh ib i ted, any such imports being sub ject to conf isca t ion, the fines, accordingly, being abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was first in troduced in Lebanon on December 3, 1939. S ign if icant changes were made in 1944, 1945, and 1948. Sub- sequently, exchange controls were g r adu a l ly relaxed, and on May 24, 1952 the last rema in ing exchange con trol requ i rement was o f f i c i a l ly abolished. There is a comp le te absence of con t ro ls and restrictions on payments and of government i n t e r f e r e n ce in the f ree ma rke t. There is a mu l t ip le exchange rate s t ruc tu re since o f f ic ial exchange is reserved for government purposes, wh i le nongov e rnm en t al t ran sac t ions a re e f fec ted in the f r ee ma rket in wh ich rates remo te f r om the par v a lue rates are in e f f e ct and in wh ich the re are b roken cross rates. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Lebanese Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. The o f f ic ial ra tes are LL 2.19 buy ing, LL 2.21 se l l ing, per US$1. These ra tes apply only to government paymen ts, and a ll o ther t r an s a c t ions take place at f ree market rates (see Tab le of Exchange Rates, b e l ow ). Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are a t tached to exchange paymen ts or receipts in Lebanon, but paymen ts for impor ts f r om ce r ta in coun t r ies with which Lebanon has conc luded paymen ts agreemen ts spec i fy ing the method or channel of p a ym e n t1 should be made th rough au tho r- ized dealers or spec if ic accoun ts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commod i t ies, but licenses are issued freely (o f ten a f ter the a r r ival of the goods) except for a few commodities of a type produced locally. Exchange may be obtained f ree ly th rough the f r ee market. Pay- ments for imports f rom certain coun tr ies are expected to be made in a specified manner (see section on Prescription of Cu r rency, a b o v e ). 1 Lebanon has p aym en ts ag reemen ts w i th such requ i remen ts w i th Egypt, France, and the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 221 Payments for Invisibles Exchange may be ob ta ined f ree ly th rough the f r ee market or pay- ment may be m a de f r e e ly in local cu r r en cy to any accoun t. Exports and Export Proceeds Export l icens ing is app l ied to only a few items such as livestock, whea t, b a r l ey, j u te goods, cemen t, caustic soda, and ce r ta in metals. There are no su r render requ iremen ts a t tached to exchange receipts, wh i ch may be r e t a in ed, used, or f ree ly sold in the f r ee marke t. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no s u r r e n d er requ i remen ts a t tached to exchange receipts, w h i ch may be re ta ined, used, or f r e e ly sold in the f ree ma rke t. Capital There are no l im i ta t ions on capital paymen ts or receipts, and exchange in respect of cap i tal movements may be free ly ob ta ined or sold t h r o u gh the f r ee m a rk e t. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (Lebanese ixnuids per L'.ti. dollar) Buying 2.19 Selling 2.21 Gov e rnm ent payments. 3.57 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) A ll exchange rece ip ts not r e t a i n e d. 3 .57 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) A ll o t h er p aym en t s. Changes during 1952 January 8 Legal l im i ta t ions on the export and impo rt of Lebanese c u r r e n cy we re f o rm a l ly removed. January 26 The requ i rement tha t, if exchange receipts f r om invisibles in spec if ied c u r r e n c i es we re so ld, 10 pe rcent mu st be su r rende red at the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS official rate, was abolished; such sales of foreign exchange could in fu tu re be made entirely in the free market. May 17 The requirement that companies operating under special contract and selling specified currencies in order to obtain Lebanese pounds should surrender 80 per cent at the official rate was revoked; such sales of foreign exchange could in fu tu re be made entirely in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in the Netherlands on May 10, 1940. The present exchange control system has its legal basis in a decree of October 10, 1945 (Foreign Exchange Decree 1945), which became effective on October 20, 1945. The basic structure of the system has rema ined unchanged since then, although there has been cons iderab le re laxa t ion in detail. The restrictive system is imple- mented th rough l icens ing of all imports, exports, and payments to and receipts f rom nonresidents, but many transactions are covered by general licenses. The prescription of currencies for foreign payments and receipts is an integral pa rt of the exchange control system. Import restrictions and restrictions on payments on invisibles and capital account are applied less severely to soft currency countries. Since 1949, restrictions on payments in connection with in tra-European trade and services have been relaxed considerably. Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.80 = US$1. The official rates are f 3.795 buying, f 3.805 selling, per US$1.1 Basically, exchange transactions are effected at un i fo rm rates based on the above par value. For sterling, French f r an c s, Swiss "agreement" f ranc s, and Swedish kroner, free spot and f o rw a rd exchange marke ts have been established.2 Au thor ized banks are allowed to cover both spot and fo rw a rd per- mitted transactions in these currencies in the Amsterdam exchange market and with banks in the coun t ry of the currency concerned against guilders at rates w i th in a fixed spread within one per cent either side of parity. Forward transactions must be based on permitted merchandise or service transactions. Special arrangements apply to exchange proceeds f rom exports to certain coun tr ies or in cer ta in currencies, as fo l lows: 1 Effec t ive January 2, 1953, these rates were replaced by f 3.77 buying and f 3.83 selling, and authorized banks were a l lowed to cover pe rm i t ted transactions at ra tes between these limits. 2 The U.S. dollar and the Belgian f r anc were added, e f fec t ive Janua ry 2, 1953 and Janua ry 24, 1953, respectively. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exporters are permitted to retain in foreign currency accounts held by authorized banks 10 per cent of most export proceeds obtained in U.S. and Canadian dollars. The retained proceeds, known as Export Bonus dollars (EB dollars), are not legally transferable other than to the exporter's direct supplier and at the official rate. Most importers from Argentina are granted negotiable "import payment certificates" for the amount of their imports, and most ex- porters to Argentina are required to submit such certificates to an amount of 1.67 times the value of their proposed exports in order to qualify for an export license. Brazilian cruzeiro receipts may be surrendered, provided certain conditions are fu l f i l led; a free forward market for cruzeiros operates while, at the same time, residents are permitted to negotiate spot cruzeiros with other residents (including authorized banks) at a fixed rate corresponding to the official par values, provision being made for the "mixing" of official and retained exchange (in any proportion) for payments in respect of imports and purchases for transit trade transactions. In actual practice, no mixing ratios have ever been established. All imports, as well as purchases for transit, can be paid for with cruzeiros bought in the free fo rwa rd market, with the excep- tion of purchases of coffee which have to be paid for in cruzeiros bought at the official spot rate from the Netherlands Bank. Retained cruzeiros can also be used in payment for invisibles. Exporters are permitted to sell their balances on nontransferable "Egyptian nonresident accounts" to importers at or below the rate corresponding to the official par values of the Netherlands guilder and the Egyptian pound.3 Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands overseas territories (the Netherlands Antilles, Surinam, and New Guinea) are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Netherlands and its overseas territories constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. The Republic of Indonesia participates in several of the Netherlands' payments agreements, and in those cases it also constitutes a part of the Nether- lands Monetary Area. 3 The relative general license was canceled on January 14, 1953 when the per- mission to negotiate Egyptian export pounds was extended, on both the selling and the buying side, to resident transit traders. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 225 Administration of Control The adm in is tra t ion of exchange control is conducted by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i r s, A f fa i rs of the Rea lm, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agriculture. Import licensing and export licensing are hand led by the Central Import- Export Agency (CDIU) and its delegated offices, under directives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. In- visible and capital transactions are licensed by the Ne ther lands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Sixty-seven au thor ized banks have been permitted to hand le fo re ign exchange transac t ions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for t ran s fer abroad, must always be made through an authorized bank, either to the credit of a transferable nonresident guilder account held by a fore ign bank with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's holdings abroad of the currency concerned. Such payments to nonresidents must be made in the currency specified in the exchange license, viz., (1) where a two-account payments agree- ment is in force, optionally in guilders held in a nonresident account related to the partner country or in the the partner country's cur- rency; (2) for a single-account agreement, in the currency of the agreement; (3) in cases (1) and (2 ), in sterling if ad hoc approval is given; (4) in transactions with the United States and Canada, either by debiting an authorized bank's holdings of the respective currencies in the United States or Canada, or by crediting an appro- priate t ran s fe rab le guilder account (Amer ican or Canad ian Accoun t) held by a U.S. or Canadian bank with an authorized b a n k; (5) in all other cases, on the basis of ind iv idual au thor iza t ion, usually in U.S. dollars or sterling. The p resc r ip t ion of currencies for exchange receipts is s im i lar to that for exchange payments. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts held in guilders with Netherlands au tho r ized bank s: "gu i lder ag reement accounts", other "transferable accounts" (T and TN accoun t s ), and "capital accounts" (N, K, and Z accoun ts ). All are designated by na t iona l i ty accord ing to the country of residence of the account holder. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS "Guilder agreement accoun ts" are t rans fe rab le accounts in the names of foreign banks; they are used for payments and receipts ma in ly on account of current transactions. Balances on T accounts may at any time be freely t rans fe r red to the holder's country of residence, and to T, K, or N accounts related to that country. Balances on T accounts may be utilized in payment of Netherlands exports. They may be credited freely for coupons, dividends, and contractual amortization if a payments agreement provides for such transfers, or the account relates to Canada or the United States. TN accounts are accounts in the names of nonresident Netherlands nationals who have been resi- dents of the same foreign country since at least May 5, 1945. To these are credited, for t ran s fer to the holder's country of residence, his capital earnings, con trac tual amortization, and pensions accru ing in the Ne ther lands on or a f t er April 1, 1952.4 K accounts are held by fo re ign nonresidents. N accounts are in the names of nonresidents hav ing Netherlands nationality or domiciled in Indones ia or one of the Ne the r lands overseas territories. Except in the cases noted above, capital earn ings, amor t iza t ion, and pensions must be credited to K or N accounts. Likewise, proceeds of the sale of real estate, domestically held securities, and other capital assets held in the Netherlands must be credited to K or N accounts; such pro- ceeds are subject to a reinvestment obligation unless accru ing to non- residents domiciled in Indonesia or one of the overseas territories. Balances on K and N accoun ts may be used ma in ly to cover the holder's and his fam i ly 's living expenses in the Netherlands, for pay- ment of his taxes, and for certain locally traded guilder securities. N accounts may, moreover, be debited for the purchase on a Nether- lands stock exchange of gu i lder securities wh ich are in terna t iona l ly traded. Greater f reedom exists with regard to the use of N accounts than of K accoun ts, and, among the N accounts, those related to Indonesia or the Ne ther lands overseas territories may be debited more f ree ly than those related to other countries. Indones ian N accounts, in tu rn, are treated more liberally than are N accounts related to the Ne ther lands overseas territories. Z accounts are those containing sums of unce r ta in or ig in; they may not be debited or credited without special license. Imports and Import Payments A few commodities (ma in ly gra ins and feed ing s tu f f s) are im- 4 On Janua ry 27, 1953 these t r an s f er f a c i l i t i es were extended to all Ne the r lands nonresidents l iv ing abroad since Janua ry 1, 1948 who at present are domiciled in a coun try w i th wh ich a paymen ts agreement is in fo rce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 227 ported on government account, but most imports are carried out by private dealers. A large number of listed goods imported from OEEC countries in consignments of f 400 or less do not require licenses. All other imports require a combined import and exchange license. For most goods from OEEC countries and their associated areas,5 licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly upon application; the relative liberalization list also applies to Indonesia, New Guinea, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles. For nearly all imports f rom the Belgian Monetary Area also, licenses are issued upon application. Imports f rom the dollar area in accordance with an annual dollar import program are confined ma in ly to essentials. Licenses for imports financed with EB dollars (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) are, with few excep- tions, issued au toma t ica l ly upon application. Import, export, and transit licenses are combined with exchange licenses. In principle, whenever an import and exchange license is obtained, or if no license is required, payment may be effec ted without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Pay- ment prior to the dispatch of the goods to the Netherlands is pro- hibited if settlement is to be made in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, or free Swiss francs, or to the credit of any U.S. or Canadian nonresi- dent guilder account. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are sub ject to exchange licensing. Many categories of invisibles, however, particularly if payable to OEEC countries or the ir associated territories and to certain other payments agreement countries, are covered by general licenses. In those cases the supervision of payments rests with the authorized banks. Restric- tions on invisibles payable in hard currencies are more severe than those on payments in soft currencies. Tourist exchange, exclusive of the payment of fares, is provided up to the countervalue in the ap- propriate currency of f 600 annually per adult for travel to any OEEC country, Finland, Spain, Yugoslavia, and certain French, Portuguese, and Spanish nonmetropolitan areas. The relative general license also 8 These are listed as fo l low s: Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Denma rk, France, Federal Re- pub l ic of Germany, Greece, Ice land, I re land, I ta ly, Luxembourg, No rway, Por- tuga l, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Trieste, Turkey, Un i ted K ingdom, and the ir overseas territories. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS extends to nonresidents domiciled in Indonesia or New Gu inea but s tay ing in the Netherlands temporarily. Residents may export all fore ign notes acquired in accordance with a general or special license, and a max imum of f 50 in domestic notes which must be reimported. Nonresidents may, when leav ing the Netherlands, export the unused portion of any fo re ign exchange they declared at the time of en try as well as f 100 in Netherlands banknotes. Nonresidents leaving for Indonesia are not permitted to export Nether- lands banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are sub ject to a comb ined export and exchange license. No special license, however, is requ i red for a large numb er of goods exported to cer ta in des t ina t ions in cons ignmen ts not exceeding f 400 in value and provided that payment is received f rom the country of destination. The method of payment must be in con fo rm i ty with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). The prohibition of certain exports to most Eastern European desti- nations is based on NATO agreements. The exportation of some goods is prohibited regardless of destination in order to conserve domestic supplies. Most export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. However, 10 per cent of all receipts of U.S. and Canad ian dollars from exports of domestic p roduc ts to countries with which no payments agreement is in fo r c e, and 10 per cent of all such receipts f rom sales of domestic goods to in te rna t ional organizations and U.S. Government agencies effec ted w i thout the direct intermediary of the Netherlands Government may be retained by the exporter on an EB dollar account ma in ta ined in U.S. or Canadian dollars with an authorized bank. EB do l lars are not transferab le other than to the exporter's direct supp l ier, and payment in respect of such transfers must be made at the o f f ic ial rate. EB dollars may be used for any import f rom the United States or Canada, for any services payab le in the United States or Canada, and for payments in respect of any imports or services f r om any other coun t ry, provided that they are exchanged for ap- p rop r ia te currency at the off ic ial rate. The relative import and ex- change licenses are au toma t ica l ly granted on application, unless, ex- cep t iona l ly, they are r e fu s ed for commercial policy reasons. For most exports to A rgen t ina, licenses are not issued unless the exporter submits " impo rt payment cer t if ica tes" (see section on Ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 229 change Rate System, above) to an amount 1.67 times that of his proposed export. The export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Most receipts of Braz i l ian cruzeiros other than those f rom exports contracted be fo re October 11, 1952° or of "export pounds" f rom exports to Egypt are not eligible for surrender (see section on Exchange Rate System, above ). Proceeds front Invisibles Most exchange receipts f rom invisibles, other than in Braz i l ian cruzeiros, must be surrendered. For incoming exchange f rom invisibles or capital, the recipient must submit to an authorized bank a form "B" indicating the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the amount and currency received.7 Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained in controlled accounts at home or abroad where it is required for operating purposes. Nonresidents may bring into the Ne ther lands f 100 in Netherlands banknotes and unlimited amounts of fore ign banknotes and negotiable instruments. They may be sold only to an au thor ized bank or an au thor ized exchange office. Capital Inward and ou twa rd capital t rans fe rs, and also the sh i f t ing of fore ign-owned capital within the Netherlands f rom one asset into another, are sub ject to control. Payments for con trac tual amortization are permitted free ly to nonresidents of foreign nationality to the country of their residence if a payments agreement with that country provides for such transfers. They are also permitted in favor of residents of the United States or Canada. Transfers of contractual amortization to residents of countries with which no payments agree- ment is in force usually are, sub ject to administrative discretion, 6 On February 11, 1953, cruze iro receipts f rom exports contracted af ter that date were declared eligible for surrender at the official ra te. 7 E f fec t ive January 1, 1953, the au thor ized banks must also ve r i fy that the under ly ing transaction comes within the scope of the categories of transactions for which the Netherlands Bank permits payments to be received f rom the re- m i t t ing country by the method chosen, if payment in that case would have to pass through a transferab le account held by a Ne ther lands or foreign cen tral or p r iva te bank. This verification is not required in the case of currency received f r om Canada, the United States, the EPU countries, Indonesia, Japan, the Ne ther- lands Antilles, New Guinea, and Surinam. The Netherlands Bank may prescribe the submission of evidence as to the origin of each claim and give other direc- tives to the authorized banks as to such exchange receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS credited to nontransferable guilder accounts. Nonresident Netherlands nationals are permitted the transfer to their country of residence (if unchanged since at least May 5, 1945) of contractual amortization accruing to them in the Netherlands after April 1, 1952.8 Netherlands or fore ign securities held in the Netherlands for the account of nonresidents may be returned to the owner or be sold with special or general license from the Netherlands Bank, provided certain conditions are fu l f i l led. Sales proceeds of capital assets (including securities) accruing in the Netherlands to nonresidents of any nationality must be credited to nontransferable nonresident guilder accounts, and usually are subject to a specific reinvestment obligation. In cases of hardship, the export of moderate amounts of nonresident-owned capital is permitted. Industrial investment capital supplied f rom free exchange or transferable guilder accounts a f ter November 1, 1950 is covered by a retransfer guarantee effective three years af ter the date on wh ich final payment was received. Emigrants leaving after October 1, 1952 are permitted to export foreign exchange to the countervalue of f 1,500 to non-dollar area countries or f 900 to dollar area countries, in addition to personal effects, goods required in their trade or profession, and a prefabricated house.9 Changes during 1952 January 1 The liberalization of imports from OEEC countries was raised to 71 per cent. Effective liberalization of imports from the Belgium- Luxembourg Economic Union was restored to 95 per cent. The fac i l- ities for payment in guilders in respect of train, ship, and plane fa res for travel in Europe were broadened substantially. January 9 A general license was issued permitting residents to transfer to 32 soft currency destinations up to f 50 in respect of specified invisibles. 8 On January 27, 1953 these transfer facilities were extended to all Netherlands nonresidents living abroad since January 1, 1948 and now domiciled in a country with which a payments agreement is in force. 9 Effective January 1, 1953, the export of capital permitted to persons emi- grating or having emigrated a f t er December 31, 1949 was increased. Persons having an independent trade or profession were permitted to export to non-dollar area countries either f 25,000 wo r th of goods plus f 4,000 in cash, or f 15,000 in cash only. For other emigrants, the amount of goods was fixed at f 15,000. The cash amounts granted for dollar area countries were established at 60 per cent of those mentioned, i.e., f 2,400 and f 9,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 231 February 11 The right of exporters to retain 10 percent of their U.S. and Canadian dollar proceeds on a domestic dollar account was extended to cover 10 per cent of the proceeds in those currencies of all sales to countries with which no payments agreement is in force and of sales, regardless of destination, for the account of a U.S. Government agency or of an international organization, unless such sales were effected "through the direct intervention of the Netherlands Govern- ment within the f ramewo rk of international cooperation in the field of the defense effort." The crediting of such proceeds to domestic "special account dollar accounts'7 was discontinued. March 1 The percentage of liberalized imports f rom OEEC countries was raised to 75.10 March 15 Individual import and export licensing with respect to specified goods and specified countries, for shipments up to f 400, was removed. March 25 The general license permitting residents an annual exchange allo- cation of f 400 for tourist travel in 18 European countries was extended to include Yugoslavia. April 17 The exchange allocation for business travel was raised to f 700 per person per trip for travel in 17 soft currency countries; for each firm, such purchases were limited for each coun try to the amount used in that country by that firm for travel started in 1951. April 26 It was announced that imports of ny lon stockings paid for with EB dollars would not be permitted to exceed those in 1951. April 29 Capital earnings, contractual amortization, and pensions accruing in the Netherlands on or a f ter April 1, 1952 to Netherlands non- residents living abroad since at least May 5, 1945 were made trans- ferab le to the recipient's country of residence. Twenty per cent of the 10 Since January 1, 1953, licenses for imports of additional listed goods from OEEC countries have been issued upon application. The additional list is not considered to represent an increase in the Ne ther lands liberalization percentage under the OEEC rules. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS balances as of January 1, 1952 on K accounts (f 1,000 for balances below f 5,000) was declared eligible for transfer to the holder if domiciled in a payments agreement coun try, the United States, or Canada. May 2 The allocation of exchange for business and tourist travel by auto- mobile was increased. May 15 Most exporters to Argentina, in order to obtain an export license, were required to submit "import payment certificates" to an amount of 1.67 times the value of their proposed exports. Such certificates were issued to most importers effec t ing imports f rom Argentina against import licenses granted on or a f ter May 15, 1952, for amounts corresponding to their purchases. June 5 The transfer of capital earnings and contractual amortization be- tween the Netherlands and Italy was authorized. June 18 A general license was issued permitting residents to buy goods abroad (other than goods payable in U.S. or Canadian dollars) and resell these to nonresidents established in Indonesia, the only specific approval required being that of the Central Import-Export Agency. June SO A free fo rwa rd market was created for sterling and French francs, and the spread between the spot buy ing and selling rates for these currencies was widened. The authorized banks were permitted to cover their spot and forward positions in sterling and French f rancs with their correspondents in the United Kingdom and France, respectively, and could no longer cover their fo rwa rd positions with the Netherlands Bank. They were also permitted to settle spot transactions in the two currencies with their clients at market rates (w i th in the widened spread) arising in transactions among the banks rather than, as previously, at the off ic ial buying and selling rates only. Forward transactions still had to be based on approved commodity or service transactions. The authorized banks were permitted to purchase sterling and French f r anc Treasury Bills and commercial paper for investment of cash balances held against forward contracts in the respective currency (up to 25 per cent of the amount of the forward contracts) and to sell this paper. Permission was granted to cover only one side of a transit transaction by a fo rwa rd contract. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 233 August 5 Payments to 17 so ft currency countries in respect of advertisements (up to f 200 per adver t isemen t) and various other specified invisibles (up to f 200 for each category) were free ly permitted. (Some of these invisibles had been inc luded in the list of J a n u a ry 9.) August 18 The au tho r ized banks were permitted to sell and export to their correspondents in EPU countries domestic bankno tes in denominations not exceed ing f 50, for travel of residents of those countries to the Ne ther lands. The banks were also perm i t ted to repurchase and import these bankno tes f r om the ir correspondents up to f 10,000. September 26 The obligation to o f f er prec ious me ta ls for su r render was ended, except for gold. The ob l iga t ion for residents re tu rn ing f rom abroad to o f fer rema in ing travel exchange for sale was restricted to U.S. and Canad ian dollar notes and coin, wh ich still had to be surrendered. October 1 The a l loca t ion of exchange to emigrants to both do l lar area and non -do l lar area coun tr ies was increased. October 2 The proh ib i t ion of p repayment for imports was rescinded except for payments in U.S. do l la rs, Canad ian dollars, free Swiss f rancs, or guilders to the c red it of any gu i lder account ID the name of a non- resident established or dom ic i led in the United States or Canada. October 6 The amount made ava i lab le for tour ist travel in EPU coun tr ies and certain other Eu ropean countries in 1952 was raised f rom f 400 for persons of 14 and over to f 600 for persons of 12 and over. The amount wh ich m ight be spent per day was raised f rom f 50 to f 75. October 7 A general license was issued, effec t ive f rom October 8, freeing until January 1, 1953 the balances on capital accounts as at June 30, 1952 of nonresidents of fore ign na t iona l i ty (other than residents of Indo- nesia or Ne ther lands overseas territories) domiciled in the United States, Austria, Braz i l, Greece, Turkey, and countries with which payments agreements prov ide for the t r an s f er of capital earnings and /or con t rac tual amo r t iza t ion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS October 11 The Netherlands Bank discontinued purchasing cruzeiros other than in exceptional cases. The spot buying rate for cruzeiros was reduced f rom f 20.54 to f 20.34 per Cr$100. Most receipts of cruzeiros had to be credited to private cruzeiro accounts with authorized banks. A free forward market for cruzeiros was created. In that market, residents were f ree to sell and buy cruzeiros with the authorized banks only, on the basis of approved underlying transactions, wh i le the banks could no longer cover their fo rwa rd contracts with the Netherlands Bank. For service transactions, fo rwa rd deals were permitted only in the case of receipts f rom B raz i l. Residents were a l lowed to negotiate spot cruzeiros with each other at the "rate for in te rnal settlements" of f 20.54 per Cr$100 and to t ran s fer them to au tho r ized banks to close fo rwa rd contracts conc luded a f t er October 10, 1952. October 18 The transfer of capital earnings between the Netherlands and Hungary was permitted. October 81 Payments to 17 soft currency countries were freely permitted in respect of advertisements up to f 1,000 per advertisement, and for various other specified invisibles up to f 1,000 per transaction. (Most of these items had been included in the list of August 5.) November 24 The allocation of business travel exchange per person per trip in respect of 18 soft currency countries was raised. Also, the quo ta per firm was raised by 50 per cent and made a global quota. December 1 Swiss "agreement" f rancs were traded in a free spot and fo rwa rd market. The spread for spot transactions was widened. The author- ized banks were granted facilities for investing their spot holdings of Swiss "agreement" francs. December 2 Imports and transit trade purchases of coffee payable in cruzeiros had to be settled in cruzeiros obtained at the official selling rate (f 20.67 per Cr$100). The possibility was created of using (sub ject to special or general license) nonsurrendered cruzeiros for invisibles. For service transactions requiring payment to Braz i l, fo rwa rd exchange deals could be concluded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 235 December 6 Swedish kroner were traded in free spot and forward markets. The spread for spot transactions was widened. The authorized banks were granted facilities for investing their spot holdings of Swedish kronor. December 10 A general license was issued permitting the U.K., French, Swedish, and Swiss correspondents of Netherlands authorized banks to invest their balances on transferable guilder accounts in Netherlands Treasury Bills and guilder bank acceptances, and to resell these bills and acceptances for credit to those accounts. December 12 A general license was issued to residents and to nonresidents domi- ciled in Indonesia or New Guinea to obtain travel exchange equivalent to f 600 a year per adult in the currencies of 19 European countries. December 15 The Netherlands Bank indicated its willingness, in principle, to resume buying cruzeiros whenever and insofar as its cruzeiro balance in Brazil should fa ll below the level of December 15, 1952. Purchases at the official buying rate would provisionally be confined to cruzeiros resulting from commercial contracts concluded before October 11, 1952, for amounts not covered before December 15, 1952 by a forward sale or by exchange rate or transfer insurance. Facilities were provided to transfer such amounts —if already held in nonsurrendered cruzeiros not covered by a forward sale —to a special cruzeiro account with the Netherlands Bank to be liquidated on a first come, first served basis. December 17 Resident exporters were granted a general license permitting them to dispose of their balances held in Egypt on "Egyptian nonresident accounts" by selling these to resident importers, either directly or through an authorized bank, at a rate equal to or below the "rate for internal settlements" fixed by the Netherlands Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Origin and Essential Features Control over exchange t ransac t ions was in t roduced in Nicaragua on November 13, 1931. Subsequently, at va r ious times, exports and im- ports have been made sub ject to government control. Certain changes were introduced later, a f fec t ing t rade and payments transactions. The last m a jor revision became effec t ive November 9, 1950, when the exchange rate system was s imp l if ied by the e l im ina t ion of compensa- tion and c e r t i f i c a te practices and of a system of ind iv idual import quotas. The exchange system comprises a mu l t ip le exchange rate s truc ture consisting of two o f f ic ial rates w i th, in add i t ion, va r ious surcharges. All exchange receipts must be surrendered at a fixed ra te. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions or p roh ib i t ions to restrain imports. There is a fluctuating f ree market in fo re ign notes and coins for transactions of minor importance. Exchange Rate System The par value is Cordobas 5 = US$1. The ra te system is based on two off ic ial rates of C$5 and C$7 per US$1. By m ix ing these rates in different proportions and by add ing surcharges of C$1 and C$3 per US$1 to certain types of payments, other e f fec t ive rates are obtained for the various categories of incom ing and outgoing payments (see Table of Exchange Rates, b e low ). A fluctuating f r ee market for fore ign notes and coins is used mainly for travel exchange transactions. Administration of Control The control system is adm in is tered by the Issue Depar tment of the National Bank of N icaragua, wh ich issues import and export permits and allocates import commodities to the established categories of "essential," "semi-essential," and "nonessen t ia l" goods. All sales of exchange pass th rough the Issue Depa r tment and the Bank ing Depar t- ment of the Na t ional Bank or th rough au tho r ized banks. Prescription of Currency There is no prescr ip t ion of cu r rency, but incom ing and outgoing payments no rma l ly are made in U.S. dollars. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution N ICARAGUA 237 Imports and Import Payments For the purpose of app ly ing the established exchange rates and sur- charges, private impor ts are c lass if ied into three categories to wh ich the rate of C$7.05 app l ies: Ca tegory I (essential im p o r t s ), Category II (semi-essential impo r t s ), and Category III (nonessen t ial impo r t s ). Surcharges of C$1 and C$3 per US$1 apply to paymen ts for imports in Categories II and III, respec t ive ly. Government paymen ts abroad are made at the ra te of C$5.03 per US$1. All impor ts are sub ject to license to assure th at the co r respond ing exchange t ran sac t ion takes place at the app l icab le ra te and that the re levant su rcha rge has been paid in advance. Be fo re mak ing an app l ica t ion to impo r t, the impo r t er must deposit in domestic currency 100 per cent of the ca lcu la ted value of the proposed import.1 Payments for Invisibles A ll invisibles are sub j e ct to a u t h o r i z a t i o n, in order to app ly the appropr ia te rate of exchange. Inv is ib le paymen ts inc iden tal to impo rt transac t ions are sub ject to the same rate and procedure as the cor- respond ing import. Most other invisibles are t rea ted l ike Category III impor ts and are, the re fo re, sub j e ct to the C$3 per US$1 su rcha rge, added to the C$7.05 per US$1 rate. Students' expenditures, paymen ts of insurance pre- miums, and remittances on account of fo re ign investments are made at the rate of C$7.05 per US$1. Sales of exchange for most invisibles are sub ject to a 5 per cent tax wh ich is collected by the Na t ional Bank of N ica ragua .2 Domestic cu r rency notes can be exported f ree ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are sub j e ct to a l icens ing p rocedu re s im i lar to that for imports, wh ich serves to assure that all exchange receipts are sur- rendered at the effec t ive rate of C$6.60 per US$1 (20 per cent at C$5 per US$1 and 80 per cent at C$7 per US$1). 1 Effective February 16, 1953, ce r ta in specified impo r ts have been exempted f r om the deposit obligation. 2 A 5 per cent tax is lev ied also on the invo ice v a l ue of all impo r ts other than listed pha rmaceu t ical p roduc t s. This tax is collected by the Office of the Collector General of Customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS All exchange receipts f rom exports must be surrendered, with the exception of receipts of foreign concessionaires which, according to the terms of their con trac ts, usually surrender foreign exchange only to the extent corresponding to their local expenses. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are sub ject to the same regulations as pro- ceeds f rom exports. Domestic currency notes can be imported freely. Capital Remittances abroad of income and amor t iza t ion of registered fore ign cap i tal require the au thor iza t ion of the Na t ional Bank. Remittances for amortization may not exceed 10 per cent per annum of the capital. The rate wh ich applies to these remittances is C$7.05 per US$1. No official exchange is sold to residents for t rans fe rs of capital abroad. Banknotes Foreign currency notes may be negotiated in a f ree market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 239 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (cordobas per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling 5.00 5.0375 Specified government payments. 6.586 (20% at C$5 and 80% at C$6.9825) All receipts not effected at other rates. 6.60 (20% at C$5 and 80% at C$7) Exports of f a rm products and products derived the re f rom, and of certain forest products. 7.00 7.30 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Foreign notes and coins (travel receipts). 7.0525 Essential imports (Category I). Stu- dents' expenses. Insurance premiums. Registered capital. 7.30 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Foreign notes and coins (travel ex- penses). 8.0525 (C$7.0525 plus C$1 Surcharge) Semi-essential imports (Category II). Medical expenses. 10.0525 (C$7.0525 plus C$3 Surcharge) Nonessential imports (Category III). Other invisibles. Note: Sales of exchange for most in- visibles are subject to a 5% tax which is collected by the National Bank of Nicaragua. Changes during 1952 No s ign i f icant changes took place during 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Origin and Essential Features An exchange control law was in troduced in Norway on May 18, 1940 and revised on November 10, 1944 and Ju ly 19, 1946. A new law, embody ing previous regulations, was issued on Ju ly 14, 1950, but it has not yet been implemented. Severe restrictions on all fore ign pay- ments were applied up to the end of 1949. Dur ing the per iod 1950-52, restrictions were relaxed, especially in connection with in t ra -Eu ropean trade and services. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are NKr 7.135 buy ing, NKr 7.150 selling, per US$1. A ll exchange transac t ions are e f f e c t ed at u n i f o rm rates, based on the par va lue for the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control In principle, all impor ts and exports requ ire licenses g ran ted by the M in is try of Commerce. However, goods listed on the so-called " f ree list" may be impo r ted aga inst a "declaration". All paymen ts to a nonresident, and vice versa, must be made th rough one of the No r- wegian au tho r ized banks or th rough the Norges Bank. Gene ra l ly, all paymen ts require approval f r om e i ther the M in i s t ry of Commerce ( in respect of goods) or the Norges Bank (in respect of inv i s ib le s ). How- ever, the au tho r ized banks may e f f e ct p aym en ts to nonres iden ts in se t t lement of goods on the " f ree list". To a ce r ta in extent, paymen ts to nonresidents in respect of inv is ib les may be e f f e c t ed w i thout p r ior permission f r om the Norges Bank. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the me thods in wh ich paymen ts to and receipts f rom nonresidents are to be made is set out in the paymen ts agreemen ts wh ich have been concluded w i th o ther countries. Usua l ly, inward and outward payments must be made in either Norweg ian k roner or the cu r rency of the coun t ry of the nonresident (doub le -account paymen ts agreements), or a single currency (single-account payments agree- men t s ). Payments effec ted in Norweg ian k roner are made into and out of f ree accounts held in No rweg ian kroner w i th the au tho r ized banks (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 241 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts held in Norwegian kroner w i th the authorized banks: f ree accoun ts and blocked accounts. Free accounts may be used for all paymen ts to and f rom the country of the nonresident ho lder in all cases where the payments agreement w i th the country concerned allows payment to be made in Norwegian kroner. Any ba lance in a f r ee account may be converted at any time into the currency of the coun try of the holder. Nonresident-owned capital which cannot normally be transferred abroad is deposited in blocked accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder to cover various expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance prem iums, trave l ing expenses, etc., and for investment in bonds quoted on the Norwegian Stock Exchange. Bonds purchased in this way must be deposited in a "blocked securities" account w i th an au thor ized bank. Imports and Import Payments All goods on the so-called " f ree list" can be imported f ree ly f rom OEEC coun tr ies and the ir associated areas * and f rom Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Spain and its associated areas, and Yugoslavia. All other imports require import licenses. Imports wh ich must be paid for in U.S. do l lars or other "hard" currencies are limited to goods considered essential to the No rweg ian economy. Whenever an import license is ob ta ined, or if no license is required, payment may be e f fec ted w i thout de lay, sub ject to presentation of a copy of the import license or of adequa te documen ta t ion to prove the va l id i ty of the transac t ion, and provided that the method of payment is in con fo rm i ty w i th the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments to nonresidents for most current invisible transactions is gran ted f ree ly. No rweg ian tourists to OEEC countries are gran ted the equ iv a l ent of NKr 500 per year 2 for each adu l t. 1 These are listed as fo l low s: Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Federal Re- pub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, I ta ly, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, Portugal, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Trieste, Turkey, their overseas territories, and the Sterling Area. 2 Effective March 16, 1953, this amount was increased to NKr 700. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Each person leaving Norway may export Norwegian banknotes up to a total amount of NKr 50. Nonresidents may, when leaving Norway, export foreign banknotes to the extent that they can prove that they brought the notes into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of a few commodities which can be exported freely to certain countries, all exports are sub ject to license. Payment must be received in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). All exchange resulting f rom exports as well as f rom invisible payments must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming receipts f rom invisibles have to be reported to the Norges Bank. Each person entering Norway may import NKr 50 in Nor- wegian banknotes, and any amount of foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital t rans fe rs are subject to approval by the Norges Bank. Payments for con t rac tual amor t iza t ion are per- mitted freely. Proceeds f rom the redemption of securities are trans- ferable. Capital transfers to Denmark, Sweden, and the United King- dom are normally permitted. T ran s fe rs to the United States and Canada may take place w i th in cer ta in limits, depending upon the merits of the case. Fur thermore, inherited cap i tal assets owned by residents in the Un i ted States and Canada may be t rans fe r red. Repatriation of moderate amounts of other nonresident-owned capital is permitted in cases of hardsh ip. Changes during 1952 January 25 February 1 May 1 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods not subject to restrictions when imported f rom OEEC countries and their asso- ciated areas, and f rom F in land, Israel, and Spain and its associated areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 243 May 8 The allocation of foreign exchange for tourists to OEEC countries was raised from the equivalent of NKr 300 to the equivalent of NKr 500 per year. August 1 Some commodities were put on an export "free list", and they can be exported to certain specified countries without license. December 3 Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Yugoslavia were added to the list of countries f rom wh ich the goods on the so-called "free list" may be imported without restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls similar to those which were in effect in und i- vided India f rom September 1939 were continued by Pakistan in August 1947. On February 27, 1951, remittances to and f rom Ind ia also became sub ject to exchange control. Pakistan's restrictive system is similar to that of other members of the Sterling Area. In general, Pakistan exercises control over exchange receipts, and requires the surrender within prescribed periods of time of most incom ing fo re ign exchange and the approval of the control authorities for paymen ts to nonresidents. Pakistan also avails itself of the Sterling Area pay- ments arrangements made by the United Kingdom. These arrange- ments are reflected in Pakistan's exchange control system through the prescription of currencies for payments and receipts. Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 3.30852=US$1. Exchange trans- actions are e f fec ted at un i fo rm rates. All transactions in fore ign exchange must be conduc ted through au thor ized dealers, whose trans- actions with the general public must be effected at rates au tho r ized by the State Bank on the basis of par values established by the Fund and its members. Au thor ized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of certain specified foreign exchange. They can also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees either spot, or fo rwa rd for a limited period, with their agents in the respective countries. Administration of Control All transactions in fore ign exchange must be effec ted th rough authorized dealers. The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated au- thority to 21 commercial banks to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Regulations prescribe the currencies to be used for both trade and non t rade payments w i t h" d i f f e r ent coun tr ies and mone ta ry areas. The prescribed methods are similar to those of the United Kingdom and most other Sterling Area territories. Foreign exchange trans- 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 245 actions have to be settled in local currency through the account of a bank in the foreign country concerned or through an appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom and, in some cases, in specified foreign exchange. Receipts from Sterling Area countries (other than India) must be received in Pakistan rupees or sterling from the account of a resident in the Sterling Area other than a resident of India or Pakistan. Payments abroad by residents of Pakistan to countries within the Sterling Area are made by the transfer of sterling or any Sterling Area currency to the appropriate account of the nonresident; payments to countries outside the Ster- ling Area are made by the transfer of sterling or Pakistan rupees to accounts related to the country or monetary area of the nonresident or, in some cases, in the currency of the country concerned. Exchange transactions with India are made only in Indian or Pakistan rupees; transactions with Afghan is tan are made in Pakistan rupees. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to the use of Pakistan rupee accounts of in- dividuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the accounts of banks outside Pakistan, on the other. Accounts of residents of India are governed by separate regulations. Authorized dealers may open Pakistan rupee accounts for foreign banks without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Nonresident account holders must obtain permission from the control for transfers f rom their credit balances; transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense purposes and any goods for which orders are placed directly by the departments of the Central Govern- ment, goods imported by the land routes f rom Iran and Afghanistan, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). Individual import licenses are of four types: (1) those for the dollar area, wh ich may be used for purchases in all other countries except Japan; (2) those for all countries outside the dollar area and Japan; (3) those valid for Japan only; and (4) those valid for imports from a particular country only, in terms of the trade agreement with that country. Imports of machinery, chemicals, and drugs and medicines are permitted without the opening of a letter of credit. In all other cases, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS it is required that letters of credit be opened against a deposit of a 50 per cent marg in .* Foreign exchange under the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is made available by an authorized dealer upon receipt of an import license from the applicant. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and re- quire licenses. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance with detailed regulations. Although remittances for business and commercial purposes are normally permitted, remit- tances of a personal nature are either subject to annual quotas or decided on individual merit. Separate regulations govern payments for invisibles to India, including limitations on travel and similar personal remittances. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad require special authority. Foreign exchange is granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions and for transfers abroad of dividends and other earnings due nonresidents. Payment for inter- national travel fares is permitted if certain conditions are met. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic annual ra- tions which vary according to the country to be visited. However, there is no basic ration for tourist travel to North, Central, and South America, or the Philippine Republic. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in. Residents of Pakistan leaving for Afghanistan may take with them Afghan currency without limit; for India, Indian currency notes up to PRs 50 per person at any one t ime; for other countries, foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of PRs 50 per person at any one time, or sterling notes not exceeding £10. Exports and Export Proceeds The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and re- quires a declaration by the exporter to ensure the surrender of export proceeds. In addition to the exporter's declaration for exchange con- trol purposes, there is an export licensing system. Some commodities are not subject to individual export license but can be exported under open general license. An authorized dealer is empowered to certify the export shipment a f t er ensuring that the exporter's declaration meets specified con- 1 Effective March 2, 1953, the order requiring letters of credit and advance deposit margins was withdrawn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 247 ditions. The exporter declares tha t, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is received, he will surrender the specified foreign currency within a certain period of time. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming foreign exchange, with the exception of certain curren- cies,2 must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial rate w i th in one month. Travelers entering Pakistan are permitted to bring with them Pakis- tan currency notes up to PRs 50 per person; sterling notes up to £10 per person; and coins wh ich are legal tender in India up to Rs 5 per person. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, sub ject to customs declaration. Capital Regulations cover both inward and outward transfers of capital by residents and nonresidents. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to wh ich transfers are to be made. Preferential treat- ment is given to transfers by U. K. nationals to the United Kingdom only. O ther foreign nationals resident in Pakistan may be permitted to t rans fer capital assets up to £5,000. Residents are permitted to buy and sell foreign securities upon approval by the State Bank, and provided the foreign exchange proceeds resulting from sales are surrendered. Changes during 1952 February 18 The Government announced that all fore ign exchange (with certain exceptions—see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above) held by residents must be surrendered within one month. Formerly, this re- quirement had, in respect of invisibles and capital, applied only to holdings and receipts in U.S. dollars and Philippine pesos. April 9 The State Bank withdrew the basic travel allowance for visits to India. Exchange would be issued on individual applications to the control. 2 Currencies of India, Nepal, Tibet, A fghan is tan, Bu rma, Ceylon, Malaya, Aden, Belgian Congo, Madagascar, Mauritius, French and Portuguese territories in India, the Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, French Afr ica, South Africa, and East Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS May 12 Authorized dealers were permitted to sell up to Rs 20 in Indian currency notes to each traveler to India out of the exchange author- ized by the control, the balance being issued in the form of travelers7 checks, etc. June 14 The Government issued an order superseding its order of Febru- ary 18 (see above ), extending the period for the surrender of foreign exchange already specified and giving certain exemptions from the original order. June 23 Authorized dealers were directed not to release foreign exchange for imports unless a letter of credit was established, wh ich would not be done unless a margin of 75 per cent for goods under open general license, or 50 per cent for goods under individual license, was deposited with an authorized dealer. The requirements did not apply to imports of machinery, chemicals, and medicines. July 12 Authorized dealers permitted to maintain accounts in the fo l low ing currencies were allowed to purchase such currencies against sterling directly from their correspondents in the related country: Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, French f ranc s, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. August 11 Open General License No. XIII was superseded by Open General License No. XIV, removing approximately 96 items from open gen- eral license. August 27 The opening of assignable or transferab le letters of credit in cover of imports was made subject to the prior approval of the State Bank. September 10 The basic travel quota of PRs 200 available for travel to the Per- sian Gulf Sheikdoms was withdrawn. October 22 Twenty-two commodities were added to the open general license for exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 249 October 29 The basic travel quota for some soft currency countries, ma in ly in Europe, was reduced f rom £250 to £150 per adult per twelve months. The special scale of exchange allowances up to PRs 1,000 to first class or air passengers to Iran and Iraq was withdrawn. November 23 The open general license system for imports was suspended, ex- cept for imports by country craf ts. December 12 The Government issued Registration (Importers and Exporters) Order 1952, requiring registration of all importers and exporters un- less exempted. Until fu r ther orders, all exporters were exempted f rom this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was in troduced in Paraguay on June 28, 1932, and numerous significant revisions of the exchange system have occurred since then.1 Restrictions are exercised through import prohibitions, through exchange licensing applied to nonprohibited imports and most nontrade payments, through exchange taxes for certain imports, and through a controlled f ree market rate. Foreign exchange f rom exports and certain invisibles must be surrendered, but other receipts may be negotiated in a controlled free market. Exchange Rate System The par value is Guaranies 6 = US$1. Both the basic buying and the basic selling rates are & 15 per US$1. An exchange surcharge of 0 6 per US$1 is applied to payments for semi-essential imports, and of & 15 per US$1 for nonessential imports. Temporary subsidies are applied to some minor exports, to a few essential imports, and to government non trade payments. A controlled free market is used for most invisibles and nonregistered capital transactions (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Paraguay, which issues all exchange licenses required in the official and f ree markets. All exchange transactions must be effected through the Central Bank or through authorized banks which act as agents for the Central Bank. The operations and exchange rates in the f r ee market are at present controlled by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Paraguay maintains payments agreements with several countries, according to which exchange payments and receipts must be effected through clearing accounts in specified currencies. Most other exchange receipts and payments are e f fec ted in terms of U.S. dollars, with some payments in sterling. 1 In the exchange program for 1953, approved December 30, 1952, certain changes are contemplated in the system as it operated in 1952. These changes are outlined in the note at the end of this survey. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 251 Imports and Import Payments Imports may enter Paraguay only if an exchange contract having the effect of an import and exchange license has been concluded with the Central Bank. The import of nonessential items is restricted. A prohibited list of luxury imports is in effec t. An advance deposit in local currency of 15 per cent of the import value is required when licenses for Group II (semi-essential) and Group III (nonessential) imports are issued. In concluding exchange contracts, there is some discrimination be- tween currencies of payment, based on the limited availability of convertible currencies to Paraguay. Also, prescription of currencies is applied to payments for imports f rom countries with which Paraguay has payments agreements. Exchange is automatically granted at the rate of G 15 per US$1 for licensed imports, a f ter their arrival in Para- guay. A temporary exchange subsidy of 40 per cent is in effect for payments of imports of wheat, flour, antibiotics, and petroleum prod- ucts, resulting in an effec t ive rate of & 9 per US$1. The application of exchange taxes of G 6 and G 15 per US$1 for Group I (essential) and Group II imports, respectively, results in effec t ive exchange rates of G 21 and G 30 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain essential invisibles are permitted at the G 15 rate; these payments are subject to individual exchange licenses. Gov- ernment payments are effected at the G 6 rate. All other invisibles must be transacted through the controlled free market; some types of invisibles are freely allowed in this market within certain limits, while all others must be individually licensed and may be subject to restrictions. Exports and Export Proceeds An exchange contract must be concluded with the Central Bank for all exports, to ensure that exchange proceeds are returned to Para- guay. A few goods in short supply also require export licenses f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The export of strategic materials to Mainland China, North Korea, and certain other coun- tries is prohibited. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the G 15 rate, in accordance with the exchange contract. Export taxes ranging up to 35 per cent are applied to most exports, and certain minor exports receive exchange subsidies up to 60 per cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS under a temporary arrangement. The surrender requirement is waived in respect of the proceeds of certain minor exports which may be used to import freely specified imports; however, each transaction may not exceed the equivalent of US$133, and only one transaction a week may be effected. The foreign currencies to be received for exports are specified as the currencies of the clearing account for exports to countries with which Paraguay has payments agreements, and as U.S. dollars for most other exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Registered insurance and government receipts are the only invisibles for which exchange proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Receipts f rom all other invisibles may be freely negotiated in the f ree market. Capital Foreign capital to be registered with the Central Bank must be surrendered at the & 15 rate, and transfers f rom Paraguay of such capital, through the official market, are subject to exchange license. Nonregistered foreign capital may enter free ly through the f ree market, but any capital paymen ts th rough the free market are sub ject to exchange license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 253 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (guarantee per C/./S. dollar) Buying 15.00 All exports.2 Registered capital. 49.00 (Controlled Free Market) Invisibles, Nonregistered capital. Changes during 1952 Selling 6.00 (G 15 Rate less 60% Subsidy) Government nontrade payments. 15.00 Essential imports (Group I)3. Essential services. Registered capital. 21.00 (G 15 Rate plus G 6 Surcharge) Semi-essential imports (Group II). 30.00 (G 15 Rate plus G 15 Surcharge) Nonessential imports (Group III). 49.00 (Controlled Free Market) Other authorized invisibles. Nonregis- tered capital. January 15 The exchange budget for 1952, estimating total purchases and sales of exchange at US$39.5 million each, was approved. March The importation of about US$1 million worth of automobiles and truck chassis, with privately held exchange (divisas propias), was licensed. April Restrictions were established in the f ree marke t, and the f ree rate was pegged at G 30. 2 Various exports are subject to export taxes of up to 35 per cent, and certain minor exports receive exchange subsidies up to 60 per cent. 3 A tempo ra ry exchange subsidy of 40 per cent is accorded to impo r ts of wheat, flour, antibiotics, and pe t ro leum produc ts, resulting in an effec t ive rate of G 9. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS June 21 As an emergency change in the exchange system, the basic import rate was devalued f rom & 6 to G 15, and an exchange surcharge of G 6, yielding an effective & 21 rate, was established for imports formerly effected at the G 9 rate. August 1 The exchange re fo rm of June 21 (see above) was completed, the G 15 rate being established as the basic buying and selling rate in the official ma rke t, applicable to all exports and to essential im- ports. In addition to the G 15 rate, exchange surcharges of G 6 and G 15 were applied to semi-essential and nonessential imports, respec- tively. Temporary subsidies were established for a few essential im- ports, for government nontrade payments, and for certain minor exports. The fo l low ing features of the prior exchange system were con t inued: export taxes for most exports, a prohibited list of luxu ry imports, and the f ree exchange market for invisibles and capital. September 1 Importers were required to deposit in advance, in guaranies, 15 per cent of their import values for Group II and Group III imports. October 80 The exchange surrender requirement was l if ted for certain minor exports, and import permits were not required for specified imports, provided that the exports and imports did not exceed the equivalent of US$133 for each shipment. No individual or firm could effect more than one such transaction per week. November 4 The controlled f ree rate was increased f rom G 30 to G 49. Note: On December 30, 1952 Paraguay's exchange program for 1953 was announced; it involved certain significant changes in the system outlined above. The objective of the new arrangements was stated to be the stimulation of exports by means of higher effective rates of exchange, allocation of exchange for imports and other pay- ments in accordance with the exchange budget, gradual reduction and elimination of import subsidies, limitations of preferen t ial import rates to essential goods, re in troduc t ion of the exchange auction system for the payment of nonessential imports, normal operation of the free exchange market with fluctuating rates, encouragement of the inflow ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 255 of foreign capital by guaranteeing the free withdrawal and remittance of income on foreign capital, and encouragement of the repatriation of Paraguayan capital through the free market by authorizing the import of capital goods without limitation if paid for with funds held abroad. The new arrangements provide for import categories with corre- sponding rates of exchange as fo l lows: Group I —government and other official imports and very essential commercial imports —& 15 per US$1; Group II —other essential imports —G 21 per US$1; Group III—semi-essential imports —G 30 per US$1; Group IV (hitherto not provided for) —nonessential or luxury imports —G 30 per US$1 plus the fluctuating auction premium. However, for trade with Argentina, other arrangements are applicable: Group I imports were moved from G 1.40 to G 2.50 per Argentine peso; Groups II and III imports are subject to the free market rate; Group IV imports are effected at the G 2.50 rate plus the fluctuating auction premium. It was also announced that the Central Bank would continue to operate in the free market and that holders of free market exchange would be permitted to maintain bank accounts in such funds locally or abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls were introduced in Peru on November 23, 1945, and the most recent important revision of the exchange system occurred on November 11, 1949, when the present rate structure was introduced. Peru has two fluctuating exchange rates: an exchange certificate rate applying to most trade transactions, and a free (d r a f t) market rate for other trade and for most nontrade transactions. Imports and other payments are freely permitted, but there is pre- scription of currencies for trade transactions. Foreign exchange from exports must be converted either totally or partially into exchange certificates. Exchange Rate System The initial par value of Peruvian Soles 6.50 = US$1, established on December 18, 1946, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. No new par value has been proposed. Ex- change certificates are issued for 100 per cent of U.S. dollar, pound sterling, and French f r anc export proceeds, and 10 per cent of export proceeds in Argentine pesos. These certificates are negotiable in a certificate market and may be used for imports and for certain non- trade transactions. All exchange transactions which do not qua l ify for the certificate market are freely permitted in the free market. The exchange rates fluctuate and broken cross rates exist in both markets (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). Administration of Control Permits for exports and exchange licenses for nontrade transactions at the cer t if ica te ra te are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The exchange certificates are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru, which has conducted stabilization operations, f rom time to time, in the two exchange markets. Exchange certificate transactions must take place through the commercial banks, while free market transactions are conducted through banks and various other dealers. Prescription of Currency The issuance of exchange certificates in only certain currencies— at present, U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, French francs, and Argentine pesos —results in prescription of currencies for all transactions effected through that market. Transactions through the free market can be made in any currency. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 257 Imports and Import Payments Imports are free ly permitted. Control over imports exists only in that commercial banks must ensure that certificate exchange is used to pay for an actual import and not for unauthorized purposes. There are no licenses or other controls applying to payments for imports. Importers, at their option, may use either exchange market to pay for imports. However, in the certificate market, through which most imports are paid, certificates are denominated only in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, French francs, or Argentine pesos; therefore, payments in other currencies can be effected only through the free market. Importers opening documentary import letters of credit through com- mercial banks must make advance deposits as follows: 100 per cent of the value of nonessential imports and 50 per cent of raw material imports. Payments for Invisibles An exchange license is required to pay for invisibles with certificates. The types of invisibles which are eligible for and usually allowed in the certificate market include freight and transit expenses, interest payments and dividends, rents on property, royalties, agents7 com- missions, remuneration of foreign technicians, repayments of com- mercial debts, insurance and reinsurance payments, pensions, and certain types of business travel. Exchange for all other invisibles, and for all invisibles in currencies other than the four in which certificates are denominated, is obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export licenses are denied for goods in short supply domestically. The exportation of strategic materials to Mainland China and North Korea is prohibited. Exports are authorized generally only against payment in the four currencies in which certificates are issued. The surrender requirements in respect of these currencies have been varied from time to time, and certificates in other currencies can be issued if considered necessary. The portions of export proceeds not subject to surrender against ex- change certificates, and the proceeds of exports authorized in cur- rencies for which no certificates are issued, may be sold in the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Proceeds front Invisibles All receipts from invisibles are free of controls and are sold in the free market. Capital Inward and outward capital movements may be effected without control in the free market. Capital remittances, representing contrac- tual amortization and depreciation of foreign capital and depletion of mineral investment, effected through the certificate market, require an exchange license and are allowed within certain limits. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (soles per U.S. dollar) Buying 15.60 (Fluctuating Exchange Certificate Rate) Exports (100% in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; 10% in Argen- tine pesos). Selling 15.60 (Fluctuating Exchange Certificate Rate) Most imports. Certain invisibles and capital transfers. 15.72 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Invisibles and capital. 15.72 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Occasional imports. Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1952 April 7 The percentage of export proceeds in pounds sterling required to be converted into certificates was increased from 10 to 100 per cent. May 13 The re-exportation of merchandise imported through the certificate market was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Origin and Essential Features Import restrictions in the Philippine Republic were first imposed in January 1949 on certain luxury and nonessential commodities, and in May 1950 they were expanded to include all goods. Exchange controls and restrictions were introduced on December 9, 1949. On March 28, 1951, a 17 per cent exchange tax was levied on sales of foreign exchange for a two-year period. On July 14, 1952, a new exchange tax law extended the tax at the 17 per cent rate to June 30, 1953.1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Philippine Pesos 2 = US$1. The official rates are P 2.00375 buying, P 2.015 selling, per US$1. These rates represent the official minimum buying and maximum selling rates for commercial banks applied to demand draf ts and telegraphic transfers of US$500 and over. A tax of 17 per cent imposed on most remittances yields an effective selling rate of F 2.35755 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Central Bank of the Philippines. All sales and purchases of exchange must pass through authorized agents (the commercial banks, and the American Express Company for transactions connected with trave l). Post offices are also authorized to sell U.S. dollar money orders payable in the United States and its territories and possessions for certain specific purposes subject to certain conditions and restrictions. The authorized agents are permitted without prior approval of the Central Bank to issue exchange licenses and sell exchange for specified transactions and in specified amounts. Applications for exchange licenses outside the scope of authority of the authorized agents are referred to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency On the payments side, there is no prescription of currency other than that payments to Japan must be effected through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank. On the receipts side, it is required 1 On June 16, 1953, the Philippine Government passed Republic Act No. 871, further extending this tax at 17 per cent until June 30, 1954. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS that all proceeds of exports be obtained in U.S. dollars, except exports to Japan which must be settled through the clearing account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are composed primarily of nonresident peso funds which were in the Philippines prior to exchange controls, savings of former residents, unremitted portions of income or other earnings of nonresidents, and other items of a similar nature. These balances are not ordinarily convertible into foreign exchange. They may be used for local investments or expenses. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three groups, as follows: 1. Unrestricted imports. This group represents very essential com- modities which are specifically allowed to be imported without quantitative limitation. Licenses to import these commodities are automatically issued to bona fide importers. 2. Imports subject to quantitative quota restrictions. Import licenses are issued for items in this group up to the limits of individual quotas computed on the basis of previous imports during 1949, the essentiality of the goods, and according to such other criteria as new or old importers. 3. Prohibited imports. The commodities included in this group are foods tu f fs and other items which are domestically produced in adequate supply and various nonessential consumer items. The presentation of a valid import license entitles the importer to open a letter of credit and to purchase without delay the exchange necessary to pay for imports. There is no prescription of currency other than that payments to Japan must be effected through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank. U.S. dollar exchange is pro- vided for import payments to all other countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments and remittances abroad require exchange licenses. Such licenses are generally granted to effect fu ll payment abroad for freight, insurance, cable and telephone services, interest and amortiza- tion, professional services, medical treatment, pensions, and similar items. Exchange licenses to effect payments for the following transac- tions are granted on a limited basis: travel, education expenses, main- tenance, profits and dividends, income, royalties, salaries, etc. Travelers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC 261 may take out with them a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency but the coins shall not exceed F 5. Exports and Export Proceeds Generally, exports are not restricted but they are controlled to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds accruing from exports are returned to the Philippines. Exports of certain strategic materials are prohibited. The proceeds of all exports except those to Japan must be obtained in U.S. dollars and surrendered to an authorized agent. No commodity may be exported f rom the Philippines unless covered by d ra f ts drawn in U.S. dollars and unless collection of the proceeds is to be undertaken by an authorized agent. Exports to Japan are negotiated through the clearing account maintained at the Central Bank of the Philippines. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency but the coins shall not exceed F 50 for first class passengers, P 20 for second class passengers, and P 10 for third class passengers. Capital All exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. The transfer abroad of capital invested prior to December 9, 1949 will not ordinarily be allowed, even if the transfer is to be made to the owner's country of residence. The amount of exchange granted to transfer profits (40 per cent of capital invested or more) is considered as providing for a reasonable return of capital. Capital invested a f ter December 9, 1949 by nonresidents with the prior approval of the Central Bank is eligible for transfer abroad, but all transfers of capital require approval of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1952) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying 2.00375 All incoming exchange. Selling 2.015 Government payments. Imports of ma- chinery, raw materials for new and necessary industries, basic foods tuffs, fertilizers, etc. Certain specified in- visibles. 2.35755 (F 2.015 Rale plus 17% Ex- change Tax) Other imports. Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1952 February 8 Impor ta t ions by the Me tropo l i tan Water District exclusively of aluminum sulphate, ch lor ine, steel pipes, and cast iron fittings were exempted f rom any k ind of license wh ich directly or indirectly limits or controls impor ta t ion and fo re ign exchange. On October 24, 1952, this exemption was made e f fec t ive as of Ju ly 1, 1951. April 1 Import quotas for new impor ters could be utilized 50 per cent for controlled essential items and 50 per cent for nonessential items. May 9 The amount of foreign exchange g ran ted for fore ign travel, studies, and educa t ional purposes was reduced as f o l l ow s: (1) f rom US$1,200 to US$1,000 for trips to North Ame r ica or South Amer ica; (2) from US$600 to US$500 for trips to Europe or J a p a n; (3) f rom US$300 to US$250 for mon th ly allowance to cover costs of living and stay of Ph i l ipp ine residents a t tend ing U.S. educa t ional institutions; (4) from US$200 to US$150 for monthly allowance to cover costs of living and stay of Philippine residents attending European educational insti- tu t ions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC 263 July The Import Control Commission announced that import quotas for the second half of 1952 would be 20-50 per cent below those in the first half of the year. The heaviest cut would be applied to quotas of new importers which would be reduced to 50 per cent of their import quotas for the first half of the year. These allocations would be distributed in the ratio of 75 per cent for controlled essential items and 25 per cent for nonessential. July 14 A new exchange tax law extended the 17 per cent tax on sales of foreign exchange to June 30, 1953 and reduced the tax to 12% per cent for the period from July 1, 1953 to December 31, 1953.2 August 7 Imports of slide fasteners, mounted zipper chains, and cotton weav- ing yarns were prohibited. August 14 Export control (control over export of strategic materials) was extended by law to December 31, 1954. September 12 Imports of incandescent bulbs and fluorescent tubes of specified voltage and wattage, grey cloth, foreign lining and sheepskin lining and splits, and pure tomato catsup were prohibited. 2 See also footnote 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Origin and Essential Features In 1939 a law was passed in Sweden providing for the in t roduc t ion of foreign exchange control. On Feb rua ry 25, 1940, exchange restric- tions, based on this law, were introduced. The restrictions were more or less discontinued at the end of the war. In Ma rch 1947, however, a comprehensive system of controls on fore ign payments was re- introduced, as a result of the deterioration in the Swedish balance of payments position. Since 1949, restrictions on payments in connection with intra-European trade and services have been relaxed considerably. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Swedish Kronor 5.17321 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are SKr 5.17 buy ing, SKr 5.18 se l l ing, per US$1. Basically, exchange transactions are e f fec ted at u n i f o rm rates, based on the above par va lue for the U.S. do l la r. Administration of Control In principle, all imports and exports require licenses granted by the State Trade and Industrial Commission ( the State Fuel Commis- sion for imports of fue l, and the State Commission of Agr icu l ture for imports and exports of food s tu f f s ). All payments to a nonresident, and vice versa, must be made th rough the Sveriges Riksbank or through one of the sixteen authorized banks, and require approval by the Exchange Control Off ice, wh ich has, how- ever, delegated wide powers to the authorized banks to approve payments. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods in wh ich payments to and receipts from nonresidents are to be made is set out in the paymen ts agree- ments which have been concluded with other countries. Usually, in- ward and outward payments must be made in either Swedish kroner or the currency of the country of the nonresident (doub le-account pay- ments agreemen ts), or in a single currency (single-account payments agreements). Payments effec ted in Swedish kroner are made in to and out of nonresident-owned "regular" (i.e., current) accounts held in Swedish kroner with the authorized banks (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 265 Nonresident Accounts Broadly speaking, there are two types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: regular (i.e., current) accounts and restricted accounts. Regular accounts may be used for all payments to and from the country of the nonresident holder in all cases where the payments agreement with the country concerned allows payment to be made in Swedish kronor. All balances in a regular account may, as a rule, be converted at any time into the currency of the country of the holder. Nonresident-owned capital which cannot be transferred abroad is usually allowed to be deposited in restricted accounts. These accounts may be used to cover the holder's and his family's living expenses in Sweden up to a certain limit, for payment of the holder's own taxes in Sweden, and for investment in bonds quoted on the Swedish stock exchange. Bonds purchased in this way must be deposited in a "restricted securities" account with an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Most goods from OEEC countries, their associated areas,1 and Finland, and also printed matter from all countries, can be imported freely. All imports from other countries require import licenses. Imports which must be paid for in U.S. dollars or other hard currencies are limited to goods considered essential to the Swedish economy. Whenever an import license is obtained, or if no license is required, payment may be effected without delay, subject to production of evidence of the dispatch of the goods to Sweden, and provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for most current invisible transactions are freely allowed through the authorized banks. Restrictions are applied to a few items, particularly for payments in U.S. dollars. Tourists traveling abroad are granted the equivalent of SKr 750 yearly for each person for travel to OEEC countries, and the equiv- alent of SKr 500 yearly for travel to the dollar area. For travel to Denmark, Finland, Norway, and the Sterling Area countries, any reasonable amount of exchange can be obtained. 1 These are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Re- public of Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, their overseas territories, and the Sterling Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Each person leaving Sweden may export Swedish and/or foreign banknotes up to a total amount of SKr 100, in denominations not exceeding SKr 50. Nonresidents may, when leaving Sweden, export foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. For this purpose, a certificate of "Means of Payment Imported and Intended for Re- Export" is issued on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to North, Central, and South America (except Argen- t ina) and to all OEEC countries are exempted f rom licensing require- ments. However, payment must be made within six months after the dispatch of the commodity and must be in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exchange resulting from exports, as well as from invisible payments in hard currency, mainly U.S. dollars, must be surrendered. For other currencies, there is no surrender obligation, and the currency may be kept in a currency account with a Swedish authorized bank. These currency accounts may, however, be used only by the holder to make payments abroad if authorized, or they may be sold against Swedish kroner at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming receipts from invisibles have to be reported to the Exchange Control Office. Each person entering Sweden may import SKr 100 in Swedish banknotes, in denominations not exceeding SKr 50, and foreign banknotes without any limitation. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers are sub ject to control. Pay- ments for contractual amortization are permitted free ly. Also, capital transfers between Sweden and Denmark, Finland, Norway, and the United Kingdom are generally permitted. Furthermore, inheritances may be transferred. In cases of hardship, repatriation of moderate amounts of other nonresident-owned capital is permitted. Changes during 1952 July 1 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods which can be imported without license from OEEC countries, their associated areas, and Finland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 267 November 1 Additional commodities were added to the list of goods which can be imported without license f rom OEEC countries, their associated areas, and Finland. Additional commodities were added to the list of goods which can be exported without license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was first introduced in Syria on December 3, 1939. Subsequently, the controls were relaxed gradua l ly, but as from April 26, 1952 the exchange control legislation was recodified and made more effec t ive. The restrictive system in Syria comprises a mu l t ip le exchange rate s t ruc tu re consisting of two fluctuating free markets, distinguished by means of exchange licenses, in both of which rates remote f rom the par va lue rates are in effect and in wh ich there are broken cross rates. Certain imports are entirely p roh ib i ted; and prescription of currency requirements apply to certain outgoing paymen ts and to most export proceeds. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Syrian Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. The official rates are LS 2.19 buying, LS 2.21 selling, per US$1. These rates apply solely to specified government payments and to purchases of local currency by concessionnaire companies operating in Syria. Most transactions take place at the h igher f ree and exportation exchange market rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). The au thor ized banks are permitted to arb i trage between these two markets so tha t, in present cond i t ions, the two ma rket rates are closely related.1 Administration of Control Decree Law of April 1952 established an Exchange Board which is now the final authority on all matters per ta in ing to exchange policy and control. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy, wh ich also issues exchange licenses on beha lf of the Exchange Board. Authorized comme rc ial banks have the responsibility of record ing the exchange proceeds of most exports and seeing that such exchange is dealt w i th in acco rdance with the regulations. Prescription of Currency On the payments side, prescription of currency is applied only to payments made with exportation exchange. Payment for imports f rom the Sterling Area must be made in sterling; from the French Franc Area in French f r a n c s; f rom the Belgian Monetary Area in sterling, 1 Since Janua ry 1953, the two rates have been equal. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA 269 French francs, or Belgian f ranc s; and f r om other countries in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Belgian, French or Swiss f ranc s, or Egyptian pounds. On the receipts side, exporters of certain m a j or commodities are required to obtain the proceeds as fo l lows: exports to the do l lar area or Sw i tze r land in U.S. dollars, Belgian or Swiss f r an c s; to the Sterling Area in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Belgian or Swiss f r an c s; to the French Franc Area in U.S. dollars, Belgian, French or Swiss f r an c s; to Egypt in Egyptian pounds. Other receipts and payments are f ree f rom such requ iremen ts. Imports and Import Payments All imports require a prior license. Except for a short list of pro- hibited items, these licenses are f ree ly issued. Licensed importers who wish to use exportation exchange must ob ta in an exchange license which is issued freely to all licensed importers. Whether or not an exchange license has been ob ta ined, the importer is f ree to buy his exchange in the free market. Payments for Invisibles The use of exportation exchange to pay for invisibles requires an exchange license which is granted only for certain items. Whether or not such a license has been obtained, a potential remitter is f ree to buy his exchange in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports essential to the domestic economy are prohibited. Most other exports are free of license. The proceeds of ma jor expor ts2 to countries other than Bahrein, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, and Saudi Arab ia have to be obtained in specified currencies (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above) according to destination, and recorded with authorized banks as exportation exchange. The exporter has a choice of retaining this in fore ign currency, selling it to an authorized bank or to the Exchange Board, or using the exchange in payment of licensed imports or for any other purpose authorized by the Exchange Board. The proceeds of other exports are not sub ject to control. 2 The commod i t ies affec ted represent some 80 per cent of all exports and are listed as fo l lows: living animals, eggs, animal casings, vegetables, apricot paste, barley, wheat, maize, cottonseed, raw cotton, cotton textiles, licorice, silk textiles, raw wool, hemp, o l ive o i l, f r u i t, tobacco, soap, lea ther and hides, and foo twea r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to the proceeds from invisibles and such exchange may be freely he ld, sold in the free market, or otherwise disposed of. Capital Imports and exports of capital are free of all restrictions and may be dealt with in the free market without limitation. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (Syrian pounds per UJ3. dollar) Buying Selling 2.19 Local currency purchases by concession- naire companies. 2.21 Specified government payments. "Exportation 3.70 (Fluctuating change" Rate) Exports requiring repatriation of pro- ceeds. Ex- 3.71 (Fluctuating change" Rate) Some imports and authorized payments. "Exportation Ex- 3.71 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other receipts. 3.72 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other payments. Changes during 1952 April 26 A new exchange control law came into fo r ce establishing a Supreme Control Commission and abolishing the O f f ice for Exchange and Exchange Control. The decree recognized the creation of a free exchange market in which imports and exports of capital were free of all restrictions; persons entering and leav ing the country could take in or out foreign and domestic currency without limitation; and merchandise exports had to be made in scarce currencies. June 20 A decree was issued by which the import of gold bullion and coin was no longer sub ject to prior licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA 271 July 1 The Government of Syria au thor ized the export of wheat provided the exporters delivered to the Wheat Office at fixed prices a quantity equal to the amount to be exported. July and August A numb er of additions were made to the list of prohibited imports, and certain commodities were added to the list of exports subject to export license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Origin and Essential Features Exchange control in Thailand is based on the Foreign Exchange Control Act of January 27, 1942. A free market for sterling has existed since the end of World War II, but in March 1948 the Bank of Thai- land began selling sterling to commercial banks for approved import payments. The latest mod if ica t ion was on March 19, 1952, when limited controls on capital transactions became effective. The restric- tive system comprises multiple rates for both exchange receipts and payments, capital controls, import licenses for a few commodities from any source, and import licensing and limitations on payments for invisibles under a trade and payments agreement with Japan. Otherwise, payments can be made free ly to any country through the f ree market. Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Baht. The official rates are B 12.45 buying, B 12.55 selling, per US$1, and there is a fluctuating f ree market rate. All transactions except those with Japan and with the oil companies are carried out in these two markets. The official rates apply only to government transactions, both expenditures and receipts, to certain educational expenses, to expenditures for hospital equipment and drugs, and, on the receipts side, to 20 per cent of the proceeds of rubber and tin exports and to private rice exports. The Bank of Thailand supplies sterling exchange in payment of approved imports at a rate slightly p re fe rab le to that obtainable in the free market. In transactions with Japan, the Bank of Thailand fixes for t- nightly a rate of exchange on the basis of the average free market rate for U.S. dollars in the previous period. The Bank also provides ex- change for oil companies: sterling at the Bank of Thailand f ree rate for sterling, and U.S. dollars at an equivalent rate calculated on the basis of the official sterling-dollar cross rate (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). The amount in either currency is limited to annual allo- cations agreed between the Ministry of Finance and the oil companies. Administration of Control Authorized banks and exchange dealers approved by the Minister of Finance are responsible for certain specified transactions, primarily in the free market, while most transactions at the official rate are con- 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 273 ducted through the Bank of Thailand. Some imports and many exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Nonresident Accounts In principle, no distinction is made between the accounts of residents and of nonresidents. There are no restrictions on nonresidents regard- ing the maintenance of accounts in baht or the use of such funds locally. The use of such accounts for making international payments or the conversion of amounts held into other currencies is subject to the recent capital control regulations. Imports and Import Payments Motorcars, paint oils, sugar, and ammunition from any country and all goods imported from Japan are subject to import license. Payments for imports which are effected through the free market follow normal banking practice while, in general, payments at the official rate are conducted through the Bank of Thailand. In the case of oil companies, payments are effected with exchange purchased under special arrangements with the Bank of Thailand. Payment for imports from Japan must be effected by letter of credit. An import license permits a bank authorized to finance trade with Japan to arrange a letter of credit, af ter obtaining the approval of the Bank of Thailand. In trade with Japan, the importer generally pays in baht at the special exchange rate for transactions with that country, but for certain luxury items he must pay in U.S. dollars to the Bank of Thailand. Payments for Invisibles Educational expenses of certain Thai students abroad may be re- mitted at the official rate. Other invisible transactions (except those with Japan) are at the free rate. Authorized exchange dealers may, without reference to the Bank of Thailand, sell exchange for invisible payments associated with trade transactions. For certain other pay- ments —foreign travel and fam i ly remittances —the authorized ex- change dealer may sell limited amounts of exchange, but if additional amounts are desired, approval must be obtained f rom the Bank of Thailand for the total sum to be exported or remitted. In most other instances, applications must be made to the Bank of Thailand, which provides exchange af ter receiving proof that the request covers bona fide payments for such items as film royalties, salaries of foreigners, l i fe insurance premiums, etc. The general rule has been that exchange will also be available for remittance of earnings on foreign investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Under the bilateral arrangement with Japan, payments for invisibles that can be made through the "open account" are limited to certain specified services. No person may take out foreign exchange exceeding B 3,500 in value (calculated at the official rate of exchange) with- out prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The corre- sponding maximum for families is B 7,000. There is no restriction on the export of local currency. Persons in transit may take out any exchange they imported upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Rice exports are handled mainly by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Exports of rice by private exporters must be licensed by, and made in the name of, the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, to which the exchange proceeds corresponding to the standard price must be sur- rendered. Private exporters of rice as well as exporters of rubber and tin must obtain an export certificate to ensure the surrender of specified currencies. In addition, certain commodities require export licenses.1 Exporters of tin and rubber must surrender at the official rate 20 per cent of their export proceeds; exporters of rice must surrender at the official rate 100 per cent of fixed standard prices. Other export proceeds, including that portion not surrendered of rice, rubber, and tin, must be accounted for either by sales to authorized dealers at the f ree market rate or by deposit with authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles, except for transactions with Japan, are disposed of in the f ree market. The Bank of Thailand's "open ac- count" arrangement for transactions with Japan can be used only for certain specified services. No person may bring into Thailand foreign currency notes exceeding B 3,500 in value without a permit. Im- ports of local currency are prohibited, but a person who arrives from a foreign country or a person in transit may bring with him local currency not exceeding B 200. Capital Regulations on invisibles as well as on capital transfers are designed to ensure that capital movements are subject to control. The Bank of 1 These commodities include timber (except teak), antimony, castor oil, castor seeds, iron, kapok, lead, rubber, tin, wolfram, zinc, gold, platinum, precious stones, certain chemical fertilizers, livestock, wild animals, meat, eggs, lard, sugar, river fish, rice, cotton textiles, machine-made gunny bags, machinery, cement, oils, coconuts, copra, cow and buffalo hides, and all imported goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 275 Thailand has been entrusted with the general operation of capital controls. Only specific cases not provided for in the regulations of March 19, 1952 have to be referred to the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required to obtain exchange for the repatriation of investment capital. For transfer of funds of emi- grants, charitable remittances, and legacies, the Bank of Thailand's approval depends upon the amount involved and the destination of the funds. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1952) (baht per U.S. dollar) 2 Buying Selling 12.45 Rice exports. Government receipts. 12.55 Government payments. Student remit- tances. 15.70 (20% at B 12.45 and 80% at Free Market Rate) Rubber and tin exports. 16.51 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other exports. Invisibles and capital. 16.07 Official sales of exchange to oil com- panies. 16.69 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other imports. Other invisibles and capital. 16.90 3 Exports to Japan except rice, tin, and rubber. 16.903 Imports from Japan except government imports and a few luxury items. 2 This table, being expressed in terms of U.S. dollars, does not take account of rates for sterling, which is at a discount in the free market when compared at the sterling-U.S. dollar parity rate. In addition, the Bank of Thailand sells sterling exchange to commercial banks for approved imports at a rate of B 45 per £1, representing a slight advantage to importers over the sterling rate in the free market. 8 Rate established for transactions during the second half of December 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Changes during 1952 February 28 The Bank of Thailand reduced its selling rate for sterling for approved imports from B 51 to B 45 per £1. March 19 Limited controls on exchange transactions became effective. Remit- tances abroad in the form of foreign currencies, foreign exchange, letters of credit, or securities required the approval of the Bank of Thailand, acting as agent of the Ministry of Finance. April 1 Payments for imports of petroleum products up to agreed limits were made at the Bank of Thailand f ree rate for sterling, or if in U.S. dollars, at a rate calculated on the basis of the official sterling- dollar cross rate. Previously, payment for oil imports had been made at the official rate. The customs would in fu tu re appraise goods invoiced in foreign currency by using rates of B 16.07 per US$1 (B 45 per £1) instead of the official rates. April 10 The Assembly passed a bill extending the Temporary Currency Act wh ich fixes the value of the baht at the present official rate. April 12 It was announced that the Ministry of Economic Affa irs would give a one-ton export quota of rice for every 4.5 tons of rice sold to the Rice Bureau. April 22 The import of sugar was made subject to license. May 19 A regulation was issued by the Ministry of Finance requiring all foreign exchange acquired from exports to be returned to Thailand through specified banks or authorized firms. September 1 New trade and payments arrangements between Japan and Thailand were signed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 277 September 15 The percentage of foreign exchange proceeds which exporters of tin have to surrender to the Bank of Thailand at the official rate was reduced f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent. November 17 A regulation was issued permitting gold to be imported upon applica- tion to, and under a procedure prescribed by, the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Origin and Essential Features A system of controls was initially introduced in Turkey on Febru- ary 20, 1930. It was essentially revised by a Decree of May 26, 1947, to which several modifications have since been made. Settlements in respect of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effec ted in accordance with the provisions of payments agreements when applicable, and in other cases, in U.S. dollars, f ree Swiss f rancs, sterling through a Turkish account, other EPU currencies, or in any other manner approved by the exchange control authorities. The degree and charac ter of restrictions applied to imports are d i f- ferentiated according to the origin and category of goods and the currency of payment. All imports are sub ject to approval or regis- tration, which is automatically given by the exchange control au- thorities for goods of pr imary necessity and specified categories of "liberalized" goods imported f rom OEEC countries. For other goods, import permits are issued up to global quota l im i ts; a small group of commodities can be imported only if paid for out of proceeds accruing f rom the exportation of specified goods. Payments on account of invisibles are in most cases restricted and sub ject to individual exchange licenses. Most exports are free of license. Export proceeds have to be sur- rendered, except in the case of proceeds accru ing f rom the exportation of a limited number of specified goods which may be used for pay- ment of any import. Exchange receipts f rom invisibles have to be surrendered. Capital transactions are sub ject to individual licenses. Foreign investments in projects considered useful for the Turkish economy may be given an official guarantee covering the repatriation of the capital and earnings up to certain limits. Exchange Rate System The exchange rate system is basically un i fo rm, based on the par value of Turkish Liras 2.80 = US$1. The official rates are LT 2.80 buying, LT 2.8252 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Min- istry of F inance; exchange allocation for imports is effec ted by the 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 279 Ministry of Economy and Commerce. A Technical Committee, includ- ing the representatives of various economic ministries and the Central Bank, makes policy decisions, which are subject to approval by the Ministerial Committee consisting of the Ministers of Finance, Econ- omy and Commerce, and Exploitation. The Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey and the authorized banks operate the details of the exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles must be effected in U.S. dollars, in f ree Swiss francs, in sterling through an account of the Central Bank, in other EPU currencies, or in any other currency or manner acceptable to the Central Bank, or in accord- ance with payments agreements which provide for the following methods of settlement: (1) in U.S. dollars (as the currency of account in most cases) in respect to Austria, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Nether- lands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden, and Yugoslavia; (2) in the currency of the partner country in respect to Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom (and other territories of the Sterling A r e a ); (3) in Turkish liras in respect to Bulgaria and Spain; and (4) in sterling in respect to Sweden and the U.S.S.R. An agreement with Switzerland provides for settlement in free Swiss francs of 20 per cent of payments by Switzerland in favor of Turkey. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to approval which is automatically given for goods of primary necessity and specified categories of goods im- ported from OEEC countries and included in the "liberalized sector". For other items, however, permits are issued up to quota limits estab- lished by the exchange and trade control authorities. Specified com- modities can be imported (1) if paid for out of proceeds accruing f rom the exportation of specified goods; (2) if exchanged against specified commodities; or (3) if, under individual permit, paid for out of assets held abroad. Imports on government account financed through intergovernmental loans and grants, which represent a con- siderable portion of the country's imports, are not subject to these limitations. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce reserves the right to restrict imports from any particular country within the limits of exchange proceeds accruing from that country. The Central Bank requires that applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for merchandise payments be accompanied by a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS deposit of 4 per cent of the value of the applications. If the alloca- tion is not made within one month, the applicant is entitled to with- draw his deposit. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments by residents to nonresidents on account of invisibles are restricted and sub ject to individual licensing. Payments incidental to merchandise transactions are automatically permitted. Exchange permits are usually given for payments on account of (1) interest, commissions, and similar payments connected with bank operations; (2) export commissions, registration fees, patent fees, etc.; and (3) advertisements and other expenses connected with trade. Exchange for business travel is granted within limits varying accord- ing to the country of destination. Payments to be effected by insurance companies also are subject to a permit, which is usually given. Travelers are permitted to export Turkish banknotes and coins up to LT 100. Nonresident travelers may take out, without permission, the unspent portion of the foreign exchange recorded in their passports on entry. Foreign tourists can free ly export foreign coins up to the equivalent of LT 15. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be free ly exported, but specified goods require an individual license, mainly in order to prevent triangular trade in such goods resulting in payment of a soft currency to Turkey for goods finally sold for ha rd currency. Exporters are, in general, required to sell to a bank in Turkey the fore ign exchange proceeds of goods ex- ported, within 3 months from the da te of exportation and within 15 days f rom the date on which the fore ign exchange in question has been placed at their disposal. However, proceeds accruing from speci- fied exports (less than 3 per cent of the value of total exports) may be used within 6 mon ths by exporters for the payment and impor ta- tion of any goods including those whose importation is not otherwise permitted. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents on account of services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered within 15 days from the date of acquisition. Travelers are permitted to import Turkish banknotes and me ta l l ic currency up to LT 100. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 281 Capital Residents. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- ac t ions be tween a resident and a non res ident are sub ject to the ap- proval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. The repa tr ia t ion of fo re ign assets held by residents may, in cases spec i f ica l ly approved by the M in is try of Finance, be e f fec ted th rough the impo r ta t ion of specified commodities. Nonresidents. Foreign companies and con t rac to rs established abroad who wish to do business in Turkey must import in the f o rm of fo re ign exchange the cap i tal and opera t ing funds requ i red by the business. In pr inc ip le, assets and balances owned by, and ea rn ings acc ru ing to, nonres iden ts cannot be converted into fo re ign cu r rency, and if they exceed LT 500 they are b locked. Sub ject to ind iv idual permit, blocked assets and ba lances may be u t i l i z ed w i th in Turkey, except as capital for business, or t ran s fe r red abroad th rough the expor ta t ion of specified goods. Foreign cap i tal invested in Turkey w i th in the terms of a Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded p re fe ren t ial treatment. The investment may be made in the f o rm of (1) cap i tal b rought in to Turkey in the fo rm of fo re ign exchange; (2) in s ta l la t ion s, m a c h i n e r y, tools and ins trumen ts or the ir spare parts, and such special cons truc- tion ma ter ia ls as may be needed; (3) nonphysical assets such as concessions, trademarks, patents, etc. The fo l low ing t rans fe rs abroad on account of such fo re ign invest- ments are permitted in the o r ig inal cu r rency of c ap i t a l: annual profits, interest, and d iv idends not exceed ing 10 per c en t; and all or pa rt of the invested cap i ta l, unless ind iv idu a l ly permitted otherwise, a f ter three years f rom the date of mak ing the investment, if effec ted in the fo rm of cash, or a f t er five years f rom the date of mak ing investments in any other fo rm. Sub ject to an ind iv idual permit, the proceeds arising f rom the l iqu ida t ion of fo re ign investments or of p ro f i ts, etc., exceeding 10 per cent, may be t ran s fe r red at the time the capital is repatriated, or th rough the exportation of specified goods. The capital and interest of long-term loans and credits made by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an ag r icu l- tu ral charac ter) may be accorded the same t r an s f er bene f i ts as those described above for fore ign inves tmen t. Up to a total of LT 300 m i l- l ion, a guaran tee to such loans can be accorded by the M in is t ry of Finance, sub ject to the approval of the Counc il of Ministries. Changes during 1952 No s ign i f icant changes took p lace du r ing 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls and res tr ic t ions were introduced in the Union of South A f r ica on September 9, 1939. Under these controls and restric- tions all payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require an exchange license, and all exchange receipts in currencies other than Sterling Area currencies must be offered for surrender. In November 1948, restrictions were introduced through a system of exchange quotas for imports f rom outside the Sterling Area and the implementation of a prohibited import list. On July 1, 1949, this system was replaced by an import licensing system which also re- stricted imports f rom the Sterling Area other than in respect of goods produced in Southern and Northern Rhodesia. In Janua ry 1950, two types of import license ( f or all countries and for soft currency coun- tries, respectively) were introduced. Exchange Rate System The par va lue is South A f r i c an Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are u n i f o rm and are based on the f ixed rates for sterling/South A f r i c an pounds and the London ma rket rates for sterling against other cur- rencies ma in ta ined between off ic ial limits. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange or trade restrictions between the Union of South A f r ica, South West A f r i c a, Basu to land, Swaziland, and the Bechuana land Pro tec tora te. These territories may be regarded as form ing with the Union of South A f r i ca a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports ac t ing on b eh a lf of the Secretary for Commerce and Indus tr ies. Exchange l icens ing is the responsibility of the Treasury, wh ich has delegated th is a u t h o r i ty to the Reserve Bank, wh ich, in tu rn, has delegated to the comme rc ial banks some of its l icens ing power. App rop r ia te exchange for l icensed impo r ts is made ava i lab le by the au thor ized dealers upon produc t ion of suitable documen ta ry evi- dence. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA 283 Prescription of Currency All approved payments to and receipts f rom residents outside the Sterling Area must be made in the manner prescribed by the South A f r ican Treasury. For most transactions, the prescribed method is in sterling to or f rom an account related to the country or monetary area of the nonresident following the nomenclature of the United Kingdom's exchange control system; in several cases, payments or receipts may alternatively be in the appropriate local currency; for Canada and American account countries, they may be in U.S. dollars. As an excep- tion, there are special currency prescriptions for exports of diamonds. Nonresident Accounts There are nonresident accounts for beneficiaries resident outside the Sterling Area, and Sterling Area accounts for beneficiaries in territories of the Sterling Area. Credits to the former are subject to control, and each deposit requires approval. Withdrawals f rom the account may be used to pay for exports to the country of the account holder, local payments, transfers to the country of the account holder or to other Sterling Area territories, and payments to a nonresident account of the same country or monetary area. Balances held in Sterling Area accounts may be used freely for local payments or transferred to any other territory of the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments Most imports require either a general import license which is valid for imports f rom any country or a restricted import license which is valid only for imports from soft currency countries.1 The general licenses are issued for all classes of permissible imports according to the relative essentiality and availability of particular classes of com- modities, and the total amount of foreign exchange available for such licenses. General licenses are liberally granted for certain essential commodities. Restricted licenses are issued for raw materials, con- sumable stores and maintenance spares, and consumer goods, to sup- plement the volume of such imports obtained under general license. For raw materials, consumable stores, and maintenance spares, licenses (general and restricted) are granted to importers on the basis of quotas fixed in accordance with previous consumption and estimated requirements. For consumer goods, licenses are granted to importers 1 These are defined as follows: all countries other than Bolivia, Canada, Co- lombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guate- mala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS up to the limit of individual quotas based on previous imports; 75 per cent of such quotas are covered by restricted licenses and the balance by general licenses. In a few cases, importers —provided they import certain essential consumer goods —can doub le pa rt of their quota up to 150 per cent of their 1948 imports of the same item. Import licenses for textile piece goods below cer ta in ceiling prices from both hard and soft currency countries are free ly issued on presentation of proof that firm orders have been placed. The import of specified luxury and semiluxury consumer goods, as well as goods produced locally in adequate supply, is prohibited. How- ever, under a prohibited list token import scheme, special import licenses may be obtained for the importation of prohibited items through a conversion of consumer goods import licenses. Consumer goods licenses (bo th general and res tr ic ted) may be converted into special licenses for prohibited list items at a conversion rate of £5 in regu lar licenses for each £1 in prohibited list licenses. Imports of gasoline and oil do not requ ire impo rt licenses; nor do imports of items included in a "free list" (mainly threads, yarns, needles, sewing machines, books, and other articles of a similar n a tu r e ), when such imports are f rom soft currency areas. A holder of a valid import license is granted exchange to pay for his imports upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the trans- action will be properly effec ted and payment made in the prescribed manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts to residents of the Sterling Area, nor is any license required. All paymen ts to residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area requ ire exchange licenses wh ich are freely granted for most invisibles. Non-sterling exchange for payment of film royalties, travel expenses, membership fees, ma in tenance, etc., is granted in limited amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses, issued by the Secretary for Commerce and Indus- tries, are required for exports to any destination (o ther than Basuto- land, Swaziland, and the Bechuana land Protectorate) of certain spe- cific raw materials in short supply and m a n u f a c t u r es the re f rom. They are also required, for strategic reasons, for certain other goods exported to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any British Dominion, Colony, Possession, Protectorate, or Mandated Territory, or the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA 285 All foreign exchange other than Sterling Area currencies accru ing f rom exports must be received in the prescribed manner and be sur- rendered (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Export control procedures operate to assure this. Special conditions apply to the export of diamonds and the manner in which payment shall be received. Proceeds from Invisibles Non-sterling exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be received in the appropriate manner and surrendered. Capital Non-sterling exchange receipts of capital must be received in the appropriate manner and be surrendered. Transfers of capital to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require approval. This is granted to emigrants up to certain limits; otherwise residents are not norma l ly allowed to export capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Capi- tal transferred directly to the Union f rom a country outside the Ster- ling Area may normally be retransferred to the country of origin and in the currency in which the original transfer was received. Changes during 1952 January 80 Import licenses for imports of textile piece goods f rom hard cur- rency countries were no longer to be issued free ly, and became sub ject to the regular quotas. March 12 Import licenses for 1952 in respect of consumer goods were to be issued up to 40 per cent of 1948 imports, compared with 60 per cent for 1951; this percentage was increased on May 21 to 45 per cent of the 1948 figure. Of this amount, approximately 20 per cent of the licenses would be issued for imports f rom hard currency countries and the balance for purchases from soft currency countries. June 6 Import licenses for consumer goods could be doubled in amount (up to 150 per cent of a holder's 1948 imports) in respect of a few essential consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in the United Kingdom on Sep- tember 3, 1939. Since then there have been a considerable number of developments in details, but the essentials of the system have, in prin- ciple, remained unchanged. Exchange control is not imposed on trans- fers to other countries in the Sterling Area, but all payments to non- Sterling Area countries require exchange control approval which, upon verification of the amount and provided the method of payment is in accordance with the general prescription of currency requirements, is granted automatically for licensed imports, contractual payments (except films), and many types of noncontractual payments. Some types of noncontractual payments are subject to monetary limitations and, in some instances, to discrimination according to the country of receipt. Export proceeds must be received in the manner prescribed in the regulations, and certain currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Exchange Rate System The par value is United Kingdom Pound 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for most currencies dealt with in the United Kingdom are main- tained between official limits* corresponding to US$2.82 buying, US$2.78 selling, per £1. In general, authorized banks are allowed to cover transactions against sterling in the London exchange market or with banks in the country of the currency concerned, where the au- thorities of that country have given their approval. The United King- dom operates a single rate system based on the Fund par values or, where countries have not an agreed parity, on official rates. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area (Scheduled Territories in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange con tro l); in addition to the United Kingdom, the Ster- ling Area comprises Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Iceland, India, Iraq, Irish Republic, Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan, Libya, New Zea- 1 Official rates are quoted for the following currencies: Belgian francs, French francs, Danish kroner, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands West Indies guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 287 land, Pakistan, Southern Rhodesia, Union of South Afr ica, together with all British Colonies, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories. Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's f ree market. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control in the United Kingdom is conducted by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to the commercial banks, practically all of which are author- ized for this purpose. Import and export licensing is handled by the Board of T rade .2 Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods of making payments to and re- ceiving payments from countries outside the Sterling Area is an integral part of the U.K. exchange control system and provides a mechanism for payments between all Sterling Area territories and the rest of the world. Payments to and receipts f rom countries with which the United Kingdom has negotiated Monetary Agreements,3 the American Ac- count Area, and Canada may be made either in sterling or in the currency of the paying/receiving country or monetary area. Payments to and f rom all other countries are predominantly effected in sterling— in most cases in conformity with Sterling Payments Agreements nego- tiated by the United Kingdom, under the terms of which the nonresi- dent recipient is enabled to obtain his own local currency. These arrangements are facilitated and controlled by designating all non- resident sterling accounts geographically according to the residence of the account holder, and by publishing general regulations showing those transfers permitted between the various sterling accounts with- out reference to the exchange control authorities (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts (other than blocked accounts) of nonresidents, i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area, are available for pay- 2 Export licensing in the United Kingdom, as in some other countries, is not related to exchange control. 8 Countries (monetary areas) covered by these Monetary Agreements are as follows: Belgian Monetary Area, Denmark (with the Faroe Islands and Green- land), French Franc Area, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sweden, and Switzerland (and Liechtenstein). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS men ts in the Sterling Area and for t ran s fe rs to residents in the same coun t ry or mone tary area as the account holder. The extent of trans- fe rab i l i ty of these accounts to o ther nonresidents varies according to the four groups described below. However, considerable ("administra- t ive") t ran s fe rab i l i ty is achieved by gran t ing licenses to e f fect pay- men ts outside the prescribed arrangements. 1. American Accounts (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Do- m in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Hon- du ras, Liberia, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, Ph i l ipp ine Repub l ic, United States and possessions, and Venezue la) and Canadian Accounts: Payments f rom these accounts may be f ree ly made to any account related to countries in this group, the Transferab le Account Area, and the Res idual Group. Balances on Amer ican Accoun ts and Canad ian Accoun ts may be f ree ly converted into Canad ian or U.S. dollars. 2. Transferable Accounts (Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Austria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, inc lud ing the Faroe Islands and G reen land, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Federal Repub l ic of Ger- many, Greece, I ta l ian Mone ta ry Area, Ne ther lands Mone tary Area, Norway, Poland, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Thai- land, and U.S.S.R.): In addition to T rans fe rab le Accounts, there are other accounts related to countries in this area. Paymen ts f rom T ran s fe rab le Accounts (mostly held by banks) may be made free ly to any account related to the T rans fe rab le Account Area or Residual Group in respect of direct current transactions. Payments f r om other accounts of residents in the T rans fe rab le Account Area may be free ly made to any account, inc lud ing a Transferab le Accoun t, related to the same country or monetary area as the account holder. 3. Bilateral Accounts (Argen t ina, Belgian Mone tary Area, B r a z i l, Bu lga r ia, Ma in land Ch ina, French Franc Area, French Somali- land, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Japan, Lebanon, Paraguay, Peru, Portuguese Mone ta ry Area, Ruman ia, Sw i tzer land, Syria, Tai- wan, Tangier, Turkey, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugos lav ia): Payments f r om these accounts (exc lud ing Ma in land China, I ran, and Ta iwan, to wh ich certain restrictions app ly) may be f r e e ly made to any account related to the same country or monetary area as the account holder. 4. Residual Group (unclassified countries not in the above groups, for example, A fghan i s tan, A lban ia, Ando r ra, Nepal, Saudi Arabia, and Y em e n ): Payments f rom these accounts may be f ree ly made to any account related to any coun t ry in this group. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 289 Imports and Import Payments Imports on government account are not subject to import licensing, but imports on p r iva te account are sub ject to one of the fo l low ing types of import license: World Open General License, Open General License, Open Ind iv idual License, Individual Import License. Sub ject to the submission of evidence of importation, or, where this has not yet taken place, the relevant import license, fo re ign exchange, or permission to credit a nonresident sterling account appropriate to the country of export (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is automatically granted for imports. For imports f rom other parts of the Sterling Area, payment can be free ly made in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments for Invisibles An exchange license is required for all payments to countries out- side the Sterling Area. These licenses are normally granted without d iscr im ina t ion as to recipient countries in respect of payments under con trac ts entered into up to September 3, 1939 and under contracts entered into with approval since that date. Films, however, are cov- ered by special agreement. Applications for licenses for noncon trac tual payments are considered on their merits and are of ten sub ject to certain monetary limitations, and in a few instances are sub ject also to discrimination according to the recipient country, as, for example, in the case of tourists' expenses, which are limited to £25 per a d u l t4 per twelve months for use in certain countries,5 exclusive of the pay- ment of fares, which is not limited in respect of direct jou rneys to and f rom the United Kingdom and paid for in the United Kingdom. Not more than £5 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom except by persons traveling directly to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. Certain freedom in exchange operations is granted to specified commodity markets, e.g., rubber, cocoa, coffee, grain, and certain metals, and to the insurance market. 4 Effective March 24, 1953, this allowance was raised to £40 for the twelve months ending October 31, 1953. 5 The countries in which this basic exchange allocation for tourists is available are listed as fo l lows: Argentina, Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Brazil, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iran, Israel, Italian Monetary Area, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Portuguese Monetary Area, Saudi Arabia, Spanish Monetary Area, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, Free Territory of Trieste, Turkey, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, and all exports to China and Hong Kong require export licenses.6 The proceeds of all exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in the manner prescribed in the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above ), and this is a condition on which the export is permitted without specific exchange control ap- proval. Exchange receipts in specified currencies 7 must be sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies 7 must be surrendered. Permission is given for fore ign exchange to be retained on controlled accounts where it is required for operating purposes. Not more than £10 in British banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom except by persons traveling directly from the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. Capital Transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, and capital receipts in specified currencies 7 must be sur- rendered. For nonresidents, foreign exchange or permission to credit sterling to a nonresident account related to the country or monetary area is freely granted for repayments abroad in respect of matured capital obligations; otherwise the proceeds of nonresident-owned capital may be credited only to Blocked Sterling Accounts, which may be used only for reinvestment in sterling securities not ma tur ing earlier than ten years from date of purchase. However, special facilities per- mit residents of Denmark (including the Faroe Islands and Green- l and ), France, Norway, and Sweden to have their capital transferred to their respective countries. Persons residing outside the Sterling Area and making investments in the United Kingdom must provide 6 Export licensing in the United Kingdom, as in some other countries, is not related to exchange control. 7 These specified currencies are listed as follows: Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Congolese francs, francs of the French Franc Area, French Somali Coast (Djibouti) francs, Indo-Chinese piastres, Lebanese pounds, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands, Surinam and Netherlands Antilles guilders, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, Pondicherry rupees, Por- tuguese escudos, Swiss francs, Syrian pounds, U.S. dollars, Uruguayan pesos. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 291 appropriate foreign exchange or sterling from a nonresident account related to their country or monetary area. Capital directly invested, after January 1, 1950, in projects approved by the exchange control authorities may be repatriated at any time, together with capital profits. Banknotes The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign notes and coin within certain limitations at free rates of exchange. Purchases of foreign notes and coin f rom residents of the Sterling Area can be made with- out limitation, but purchases f rom persons resident outside the Ster- ling Area are limited to reasonable amounts for their current mainte- nance expenses while in the United Kingdom. The authorized banks may purchase Canadian and U.S. dollar notes from anyone, but other currencies only f rom sellers resident in the same country or monetary area as the currency being sold. Authorized banks may, in certain conditions, sell foreign notes and coin for the purpose of travel out- side the Sterling Area but only up to a limit of the equivalent of £10 per traveler. Changes during 1952 January 3 Libya (comprising the provinces of Cyrenaica, Tripolitania, and the Fezzan) was included in the Sterling Area. January 14 Authorized banks were permitted to deal in foreign currencies, for wh ich rates are not quoted by the Bank of England,8 with other authorized banks in the Sterling Area and, provided the monetary authorities in the respective countries permit, with a bank in the country or monetary area appropriate to the currency concerned against sterling paid to or f rom a sterling account similarly related. Authorized banks could cover permitted spot transactions in French francs (also forward transactions), Danish kroner, Norwegian kroner, or Swedish kroner with a bank in the country or monetary area related to the currency concerned against sterling similarly related. 8 That is to say, currencies other than those listed in footnote 1. Freedom to deal in Canadian dollars at market rates had already been granted to the authorized banks (see Second Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, change on October 16, p. 147). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 KEPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS January 16 Authorized banks could cover permitted spot and forward transac- tions in Swiss francs with a bank in Switzerland or Liechtenstein against sterling paid to or from a Swiss Account. January 22 Authorized banks could cover permitted spot and forward transac- tions in Belgian francs with a bank in the Belgian Monetary Area against sterling paid to or f rom a Belgian Account. January 30 The basic exchange allowance for tourists traveling to certain coun- tries was reduced f rom £50 to £25 per person for the twelve-month period ending October 31, 1952, and this reduced figure was also applied in respect of tourists' expenses in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, for which previously any reasonable amount of exchange had been granted. The amount of sterling notes which travelers could take out of the United Kingdom was reduced from £10 to £5 per person. The amount of sterling notes which travelers could bring into the United Kingdom remained unchanged at £10 per person. These regulations do not cover persons proceeding to or f rom the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands, where these limits do not apply. June 80 Authorized banks could cover permitted transactions in Netherlands guilders by a spot or forward transaction in that currency with a bank in the Netherlands against sterling paid to or from a Netherlands Transferable Account or Netherlands Account. August 5 The Bank of England announced that the exchange control was prepared for the time being to consider applications f rom U.K. resi- dents acting as principals to purchase raw materials f rom residents of the American Account Area and Canada for resale to EPU coun- tries against sterling or acceptable local currency appropriate to the country of destination of the goods. August 12 The facilities for making dollar raw material purchases against sterling sales to EPU countries as outlined in the announcement of August 5 (see above) were suspended for one month. September 11 The facilities for making dollar raw ma ter ial purchases against ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 293 sterling sales to EPU countries as outlined in the announcement of August 5 (see above) were withdrawn. October 1 The scheme by wh ich a certain degree of freedom in exchange opera- tions is available to par t ic ipan ts in specified commodity markets was extended to transactions in l e a d .9 October 15 Liberia was added to the group of American Account countries. October 21 It was announced that the basic exchange allowance for tourists trave l ing to certain countries (see January 30, above) would be con- t inued at £25 per adult for the twelve months commencing November 1, 1952. November 17 Special fac i l i t ies giving a certain freedom in exchange operations were made ava i lab le for recognized dealers in raw sugar. November 24 Authorized banks could cover permitted fo rw a rd transactions in Swedish kronor with a bank in Sweden against sterling to be paid to or f rom a Swedish T rans fe rab le Account or a Swedish Account. December 4 It was announced that approval would be given up to an agreed l im it to applications for the release of French-owned blocked sterling to the French Accounts of French authorized banks. 9 Effective January 1, 1953, these arrangements were extended also to trans- actions in zinc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Uruguay in May 1931. On January 10, 1941, the Office of Export and Import Control was established under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and was charged with the task of controlling the declared values and origin of imported merchandise, and of intervening in the distribution of foreign exchange and of granting import permits. On October 6, 1949, new multiple rates for imports and exports were established, together with lists of commodities to which the various rates applied. The restrictive system comprises a multiple exchange rate structure with various fixed rates for imports and exports, exchange quotas established for various currencies and categories of imports, and a fluctuating free market for invisibles and capital transactions. However, invisible expenditures incidental to imports and invisible items involving accounts established by the terms of payments agree- ments are transacted at the official rates. All exports require licenses, and foreign exchange derived from exports must be surrendered. Exchange Rate System No par value for the Uruguayan peso has been established with the Fund. There are three official buying rates for exports and three offi- cial selling rates for imports. One exchange premium is temporarily established for the proceeds of exports of shoes. In addition, free market rates apply to certain invisibles and capital transactions (see above). These rates fluctuate and give rise to broken cross rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Bank of the Republic. Exchange transactions relative to imports, exports, and some invisibles pass through the authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Off ice of Export and Import Control. Prescription of Currency Payments with paymen ts agreements countries are made through established compensation accounts, most of which are kept in U.S. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 295 dollars. Payments to, and receipts from, other countries are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports, with only minor exceptions, require licenses. The granting of these licenses is effected up to the global exchange quotas established by the Bank of the Republic for various currencies according to their availability. The global quotas are distributed by fixing individual exchange quotas for each importer and by issuing them import licenses up to the limit of their individual quota. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible items covered by a payments agreement requ ire a license. Expenditures in fore ign exchange incidental to imports are authorized together with the payment for the correspond- ing import. All other invisible payments can be made f ree ly through the f r ee market. There are no limitations on the exportation of fore ign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, wh ich are granted if the exchange proceeds have been con t rac tua l ly sold to an au thor ized bank. How- ever, the export of essential goods in short supply may be prohibited. Export proceeds must be entirely surrendered at the established rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisible items covered by a payments agreement require a license. All other invisible proceeds can be held, utilized, or sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital investments are free. The correspond- ing transactions can take place free ly in the f ree market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (pesos per t/jS. dollar) Buying Selling 1.519 Basic exports (meat, wool, oilseeds, wheat, flour, cattle hides, sheepskins). 1.519 Government payments. Imports of newsprint, inks, cardboard matrix, and seed potatoes. 1.78 Exports of nonedible oils, packing house products, bristles, other animal skins. 1.90 Essential imports. 2.45 Nonessential and luxury imports. 2.35 Exports of woolen manufactures, pork, bricks, and other manu fac tu red prod- ucts. 2.60 (P 2.35 plus P 0.25 Premium} Exports of shoes, tanned and semi- tanned leather (until December 31, 1952). 2.80 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate} Invisibles and capital. 2.80 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate} Invisibles and capital. Note: An exchange tax of 1% is applied to the purchase of export proceeds. Changes during 1952 January 14 The requirement of a prior permit for imports of specified essential and semi-essential goods payable in inconvertible currencies and for imports of a few commodities payab le in any currency was abolished. April 14 The requ irement of prior pe rm it for all imports was reinstated. September 15 Banks and bank ing agencies were allowed to operate freely in invisible and capital transac t ions other than those required to be made th rough paymen ts agreements accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control regulations were in troduced in Venezuela in August 1934, but there was a m a j or revision in July 1941. There is no system of payment licenses, and only a few import restrictions are maintained, principally for protection purposes. There is a multiple exchange rate system comprising preferen t ial rates for both govern- ment imports and the proceeds of coffee and cacao exports, and penalty buying rates applied to purchases of exchange from the petroleum companies. A few exports require licenses. Exchange Rate System The par value is Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. There is an off ic ial selling rate of Bs 3.35 per US$1. The corresponding buy ing rate fluctuates around Bs 3.325 per US$1, and applies to all purchases of exchange except those from the petroleum companies and from cacao and coffee exporters. The official selling rate applies to all sales of exchange except for government imports, for which a favo rab le rate of Bs 3.09 per US$1 exists. Penalty buying rates of Bs 3.046259 and Bs 3.09 per US$1 apply to sales of exchange by the petroleum companies. Various rates between Bs 3.32 and Bs 4.25 per US$1, in a proportion depending upon world prices, are applied to cacao and unwashed coffee exports, and between Bs 3.32 and Bs 4.80 per US$1 to washed coffee exports (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). Administration of Control Certain imports require prior import licenses which are issued by the government department concerned. Under the terms of a contract with the Government, the Central Bank has the responsibility for ensuring that the special exchange rates are applied to the appropriate transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no currency prescription requirements in force. Imports and Import Payments A few items are subject to import licensing by various government departments. Licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a pre- 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS scribed percentage of the amount imported. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no limitation on exports, but the export of strategic mate- rials to certain countries is prohibited, and export licenses are required for a few products essential to the domestic economy. The oil com- panies must surrender export proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements at the Bs 3.09 rate. A rate of Bs 3.046259 is applied to exchange surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers during any one year. The proceeds of exports other than petroleum are sold at the Bs 3.32 rate, but if the world prices for cacao and coffee are below certain levels, a proportion of the proceeds of cacao and unwashed co f fee exports can be sold at the Bs 4.25 rate, and of washed co f fee exports at the Bs 4.80 rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable or can be sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. Capital Payments for transfers of capital may be made free ly at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exchange receipts f rom capital are f ree ly disposable or can be sold at the Bs 3.32 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 299 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (bolivares per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling 3.09 Government payments. 3.35 All other payments. 3.046259 Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies in excess of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales during the given year. 3.09 Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies up to the limits of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales. 3.32 Coffee and cacao exports in a proportion depending on world prices. All other exports except petroleum. Invisibles and capital. 4.25 Cacao and unwashed coffee exports in a proportion depending on world prices. 4.80 Washed coffee exports in a proportion depending on world prices. Note: The above rates for coffee and cacao need not be effective rates since sales at these rates are varied in accord- ance with the world prices for these commodities. The special rates for coffee have, however, not applied in recent years as the international price for coffee has been above the maximum level, below which the special rates would apply. Taxes of Bs 2 and Bs 1^ per 46 kilograms are levied on washed and unwashed coffee, respectively. Changes during 1952 No significant changes took place during 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange control was introduced in Yugoslavia on October 7, 1931. It has been sub ject to considerable change, and by 1948 the exchange system was determined almost entirely by a comprehensive economic plan. During 1950, however, individual enterprises were allowed to use freely any exchange receipts realized in excess of the planned targets. In the last two years, essential changes have been made in the economic system; instead of being based on administrative p lann ing and management of the economy, the system is now based on the management of enterprises by workers' collectives and the operation of market principles. For this reason, changes also had to be made in the exchange system to lessen the restrictions which, up to that time as part of the comprehensive economic plan, had been very severe. The present system is a transitory system; its purpose is the gradual elimination of restrictions, and it is based on the fact that the pattern of domestic prices d i f fe rs from the foreign pattern. However, instead of the earlier practice of fu ll ad jus tment of domestic and foreign prices through an equalization mechanism, a new system of export and import surcharges and premiums was introduced at the beginning of 1952. These were reduced in range and number as from July 1, 1952. However, export premiums varying for d ifferent commodities and d ifferent countries were in troduced, and a free exchange market was established for retained exchange. In these markets, mu tual settlements and the redistribution of exchange between economic organizations take place, instead of the previous administrative allo- cation. At the same time, the system of export and import licenses was eliminated. As a result of a severe drought, the range of sur- charges and premiums was increased in September 1952, when both certain imports and exports were temporarily prohibited and a smaller range of export commodities was made subject to licensing. Exchange Rate System The par value is Yugoslav Dinars 300 ~ US$1. A system of co- efficients, varying for different export and import commodities and applied to the basic exchange rate, together with a system of nego- tiable retention credits applicable to a percentage of surrendered export proceeds, produces a multiple exchange rate structure. The coefficients are multiplying factors applied to the exchange rate for 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 301 various commodities. In July 1952, 18 coefficients were introduced, ranging for both exports and imports between 0.8 and 4. In September 1952, as a temporary measure, the number of coefficients was implicitly increased to 27 for imports and to 26 for exports; they ranged from 0.8 to 10 for the former and from 0.8 to 6 for the latter. The exchange representing the negotiable retention credit (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), if not used by the exporter for his own payments abroad in connection with merchandise operations, can either be sold by the exporter in a fluctuating free market, direct access to which is limited to registered dealers and the National Bank, or be sold to the latter at the official rate. Such resources must be used in one of these ways within one month. The purchaser must pay to the National Bank the local currency equivalent of the transaction for which the exchange has been acquired, calculated at the basic rate multiplied by the coefficient. Administration of Control All fore ign exchange transactions have to be effected through the National Bank, which manages a Central Exchange Fund. Markets for the exchange representing the negotiable retention quotas are established at the central offices of the National Bank in the six Yugoslav republics. Prescription of Currency Payments are made according to the method or channel of payment as provided for in the payments agreement with the country con- cerned. If no agreement exists, payment is usually made in U.S. dollars or Swiss francs. The internal restriction system in no way affects the method of payment as provided for in the payments agreement. Imports and Import Proceeds Importing institutions must be authorized to conduct foreign trade transactions in order to be able to import merchandise. No import licenses are issued, but a responsible government agency can prohibit the import of any goods; on October 2, 1952, the importation of approximately 100 items was temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons. If payment is not made with retained currency, exchange is provided f rom the Central Exchange Fund. The allocation of this exchange is made in advance in the government plan, and currency is obtained from the National Bank at the official rate multi- plied by the coefficient appropriate to the merchandise concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Payments for Invisibles Exchange up to a maximum amount of Din 3,000 per person is allocated for travel expenditures. Institutions authorized to retain part of the exchange derived from export proceeds can use freely such currency for payments for invisibles. The Secretariat for the Budget allocates annual exchange quotas to the republics for educa- tional, health, and other purposes. Applicants for such exchange must obtain authorization from the authorities of the republics. For these transactions, exchange is sold at the official rate. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of certain goods in short supply in Yugoslavia is at present prohibited. The export of certain other goods requires a license. If Yugoslavia has a payments agreement with a country, payment must be obtained in accordance with the terms of that agree- ment. Export proceeds are divided into two parts: 80 per cent goes to the Central Exchange Fund and 20 per cent is retained by exporters for their free use. Coefficients appropriate to the export commodity concerned (including export premiums for certain commodities varying according to country of destination) are applied to 100 per cent of the exchange; but for the 20 per cent representing the retention quota, no payment of the equivalent in domestic currency is made to the exporter at the official rate, since the exporter retains the quota for his own use. The exchange representing these retained credits is held separately and does not enter the Central Exchange Fund. This re- tained exchange may be used for the exporter's own payments or sold in one of the exchange markets established at the central offices of the National Bank. Access to this market is limited to socialist economic organizations admitted as members and to the National Bank operat- ing on behalf of others or for itself. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank against local currency at the official rate. Capital All outward and inward capital transfers require special authoriza- tion. Residents are required to surrender all foreign exchange held abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 303 Changes during 1952 January-June A system of export and import surcharges and export subsidies applied by multiplying the official rate by fixed coefficients was gradually introduced. This system superseded the fo rmer practice, based on all-embracing administrative planning, according to which fu ll equalization of the differences between domestic and foreign prices was made for each particular commodity transaction. July 1 The following ma jor changes in the exchange control system were introduced: 1. Institutions authorized to conduct foreign trade transactions were permitted to retain 45 per cent of exchange receipts derived f rom exports and f rom certain services, regardless of the currency involved. The retained exchange had to be kept in special accounts with the National Bank. The exchange could be used for specified payments or disposed of in a newly established foreign exchange market. 2. The number of coefficients was reduced to 17 and 18 for exports and imports, respectively, ranging f rom 0.8 to 4. 3. The import and exchange licensing system was formally abolished. However, the importation of specific goods could be pro- hibited and, if payments were not made with retained exchange, it was required that applications for exchange allotment be sent for consideration to the Secretariat for National Economy. August 15 The export of cereals, legumes, potatoes, all forms of livestock feed, seeds, and scrap iron and other metals was prohibited, and the export of copper and copper alloy products was made subject to licensing. September The system of coefficients was expanded by the introduction of temporary export subsidies and import surcharges in consequence of the drought. In this way, the number of coefficients for imports was implicitly increased to 27, ranging from 0.8 to 10; and for exports, the number was increased to 26, ranging f rom 0.8 to 6. October 1 The importation of approximately 100 items was prohibited for a six-month period; these items included different kinds of chemicals, pig iron, steel, rails, construction equipment, mining and agricultural ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tools, hospital supplies, electrical and household appliances, and automobiles. October 15 The percentage of foreign exchange receipts, derived from exports and from certain other transactions, which could be retained by the recipients in special accounts with the National Bank was decreased from 45 per cent to 20 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Managing Director to All Members on Retention Quotas May 5, 1953 Sir: The Fund has made a detailed study concerning retention quotas and other similar practices pursuant to the resolution passed at the Seventh Session of the Board of Governors in Mexico in September 1952. I am pleased to transmit herewith a decision of the Executive Board of the Fund based on this study. The Fund has concluded that these practices stem f rom widespread difficulties presently existing in the international payments position of many countries. The Fund's consideration of this subject has shown that what is re fe r red to as "retention quotas and similar practices" covers a wide range of exchange measures. Certain practices under this heading may be unob jec t ionab le f rom the point of view of Fund policies. Other practices in this category, however, appear to result in adverse effec ts on exchange stability and to cause unnecessary damage to member countries. They also may lead to the adoption of retaliatory measures. The interest of the Fund in these matters clearly follows from the terms of Article VIII containing the general obligations of members with respect to the avoidance of exchange restrictions, discriminatory currency arrangements and multiple cur- rency practices, and Article XIV dealing with these exchange measures during the transitional period. In dealing with retention quotas and similar practices, the Board has not intended to change existing Fund standards and procedures with respect to exchange restrictions, discriminatory currency arrange- ments and multiple currency practices. Specifically, there was no intention to a f fect the existing requirements of prior consultation and approval with respect to measures of this character. Those require- ments, so far as they concern multiple currency practices, were com- municated to members in the Fund's letter of December 19, 1947 (Appendix II of the Fund's Annual Report of 1948). Accordingly it is expected that members intending to maintain, introduce or enlarge those retention quotas and similar practices which constitute exchange restrictions, multiple currency practices or discriminatory currency arrangements will act in accordance with existing Fund requirements. The decision recognizes that it is not prac t icab le to deal with all of these practices on a general basis. The Fund, the re fo re, wishes to deal with these arrangements on a case-to-case basis. We shall communi- 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS cate as quickly as practicable with members using these practices. We are confident that members will cooperate in these individual discus- sions in order to enable the Fund to reach appropriate conclusions. Yours sincerely, /B/ IVAR ROOTH Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURVEYS OF EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND RESTRICTIONS IN Argentina Indonesia Israel New Zealand Portugal Spain Switzerland ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Origin and Essential Features Exchange restrictions were introduced in Argentina in October 1931. Subsequently, they were relaxed gradually but then reimposed in November 1946 and intensified during the following years. The last m a jor revision was made on August 28, 1950. The multiple exchange rate system has been simplified gradually in recent years, but during 1952 additional buying rates were introduced for certain exchange proceeds. Restrictions are exercised through licenses for all imports, indi- vidual import quotas for some goods, licenses for non trade payments, and a multiple exchange rate s truc ture of six effective buying rates and three selling rates. Some exports are controlled, with requirements of the domestic market being taken into account. Exchange Rate System The basic official rates, both buy ing and selling, are Argentine Pesos 5.00 per US$1. Since August 29, 1950, the exchange rate system has consisted of two fixed rates, M$N 5.00 and M$N 7.50 per US$1, and a fluctuating free market rate. Beginning in February 1952, however, a gradual sh if t ing of export transactions to more advantageous rates for exporters has been taking place, and a new fixed rate of M$N 6.25 per US$1 and two "mixing" rates have been introduced (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is exercised by the Central Bank of Argentina in cooperation with the government trade authori- ties and through authorized banks. The Central Bank regulates vir- tually all transactions a f fec t ing the international financial position of the country. The fixed exchange rates are determined by the Central Bank, which also influences the fluctuating free market rate. Prescription of Currency As a general principle, payments must be made or received in accordance with the terms of Argentina's paymen ts agreements with other countries and monetary areas, and as prescribed in the exchange control regulations. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Imports and Import Payments All imports require an exchange license wh ich also serves as au- thor i ty to import and to obtain the necessary exchange in payment. These licenses are granted according to the origin and the category of import, usually on the basis of over-all quotas. Individual import quotas are established for certain essential goods. A 20 per cent penalty is payable on the unused portion of such licenses. There are four types of exchange licenses: 1. Exchange licenses carrying immediate right to official exchange. These are issued only for the importation of items considered most essential to the Argentine economy. Holders of such licenses are entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange f rom the Central Bank or an au thor ized bank at a rate determined by the exchange ra te classification of the import. 2. Exchange licenses carrying no right to official exchange. Licenses "without use of exchange" are issued with the unders tand ing that applicants have private funds abroad with wh ich to make the pay- ment, or that the goods to be imported are considered an investment of foreign capital in Argen t ina. Reimbursement of capital impo r ted under th is type of arrangement is to be made via the f r ee ma rket when and if the Argentine exchange position permits. 3. Exchange licenses for "open account" imports. Such licenses are issued with the understanding that payment is to be effected via the f r ee market when and if exchange conditions permit. 4. Exchange licenses for imports effected on a deferred payment basis. These licenses are approved with the unders tand ing that im- porters will arrange for extended credit terms f rom their suppliers abroad and will be entitled to claim off ic ial exchange only when these obligations fa ll due. For machinery and equipment, payment in fu ll may not be completed in less than five years, the first installment becoming due one year a f t er customs clearance of the last shipment chargeable to the exchange license. For raw materials and certain other goods, payment in fu ll may not be effec ted in less than three years, the first installment f a l l ing due one year a f t er customs clearance of any shipment chargeable to the exchange license and the two remaining installments fa l l ing due at intervals of one year thereaf ter. Preferred imports, such as f u el oils, coal, and coke, are effec ted at the M$N 5.00 rate. Essential imports ( food s tu f f s, steel, tobacco, indus- t r ial ma ter ia ls, me tal products, Pharmaceuticals, surgical instruments, etc.) are effected at the M$N 7.50 rate. Nonessential and luxury ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A R G E N T I NA 313 impor ts ( a u to and w a t ch par ts, motorcycles, etc.) are e f fec ted at the f r ee m a rk et rate. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts abroad requ ire licenses and are e f fec ted at the f r ee ma rket ra te. Earn ings on registered fo re ign cap i tal up to 5 per cent per annum may be rem i t ted th rough the f r ee ma rke t. In terest earn ings on fo re ign loans in do l la rs or s ter l ing up to 8 per cent per annum may be remitted at the f ree ma rket rate. Travelers may take out f r e e ly sma ll amounts of A rgen t ine and fo re ign bankno tes, but larger amoun ts requ ire app rov a l. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are con t ro l led in order to t ake in to a c count the requ ire- men ts of the domestic m a rk e t. Exchange proceeds of exports must be received in the app rop r i a te currenc ies and su r rende red. Expo r te rs must receive the fo re ign exchange proceeds of the ir expor ts in the f o rm of a payment order or an i r revocab le le t ter of c red it payab le in Buenos A ires aga inst sh ipp ing documen ts at a t ime w h i ch is at least five wo rk ing days b e f o re sh ipmen t. Proceeds of bas ic exports (g ra in s, f re sh and f r o z en mea ts, hides, m ine ral produc ts, e tc .) must be su r- rende red at the M$N 5.00 rate, except for the proceeds of wool and raw sheepskins paid for in do l lars or s te r l ing, wh ich must be sur- rendered at the M$N 6.25 rate. Proceeds of cer ta in m inor exports (some processed meats, tanned lea the r, des igna ted m a n u f a c t u r e s, etc.) must be su r rende red at the M$N 7.50 ra te. Sixty per cent of the export proceeds of cheese, bu t te r, casein, and qu eb r a cho and u r u n d ay ex t rac ts m u st be su r rende red at the M$N 7.50 ra te, and 40 per cent can be sold in the f r ee m a r k e t. F i f ty per cent of the expo rt proceeds of sa l ted or cured beef must be su r rende red at the M$N 7.50 ra te, and 50 per cent can be sold in the f r ee ma rke t. Proceeds of m a rg in al expor ts (preserved f r u i t s, eggs, woo len and lea ther m a n u f a c t u r e s, c ru shed bone and bone mea l, etc., and some processed mea ts) are sold in the f r ee ma rke t. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange rece ip ts f r om invisibles may be sold in the f r ee ma rke t. Travelers may b r ing in f r e e ly sma ll am o u n ts of A rgen t ine and fo re ign bankno tes, but larger amoun ts requ i re app rova l. Capital Exchange receipts der ived f r om incom ing cap i tal may be sold in the f ree ma rke t. Pr iva te banks may ob ta in loans in do l la rs or s t e r l i ng for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS minimum periods of 180 days without special authorization from the Central Bank, provided the exchange is transferred from abroad. Outgoing transfers of capital require approval of the Central Bank. Loans in dollars or sterling may be re transferred at the free market rate on the date of the initial loan or of its renewal, without special authorization from the Central Bank. Investments abroad by residents are not normally approved. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (pesos per C/jS. dollar) Buying Selling 5.00 Basic exports (grains, fresh and frozen meats, hides, mineral products, etc.), and wool and raw sheepskin exports paid for in currencies other than U.S. dollars or sterling. 6.25 Wool and raw sheepskin exports paid for in U.S. dollars or sterling. 7.50 Minor exports (some processed meats, tanned leather, designated manufac- tures, etc.). 10.08 (60% at MSN 7.50 and 40% at Free Market Rate) Minor exports (cheese, butter, casein, quebracho and urunday extracts). 10.73 (50% at MSN 7.50 and 50% at Free Market Rate) Minor exports (salted and cured beef). 13.95 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Marginal exports (preserved fruits, eggs, woolen and leather manufactures, crushed bone and bone meal, etc., and some processed meats). Invisibles. Capital. 5.00 Preferred imports (coal, coke, fuel oil, and crude petroleum). 7.50 Essential imports. 13.95 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Nonessential and luxury imports. visibles. Capital. In- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 315 Changes during 1952 January 10 The system of granting exchange licenses automatically for certain essential imports was suspended. January 21 Goods could be exported only when the exporter had received the foreign exchange proceeds in the fo rm of a payment order or an irrevocable letter of credit payable in Buenos Aires against shipping documents. February 20 Exchange receipts derived f rom cheese, butter, and casein exports previously surrendered 100 per cent at the rate of M$N 7.50 per US$1 were now surrenderable 60 per cent at the M$N 7.50 ra te and 40 per cent at the f ree market rate. February 27 The buy ing rate for exchange receipts derived from f rozen cooked beef exports was changed f rom M$N 5.00 to M$N 7.50. June 11 No documentary letters of credit could be opened without special authorization f rom the Central Bank unless the documentary credits were covered by exchange licenses marked "without use of exchange" or by exchange licenses for imports e f fec ted on a deferred payments basis. July 21 Exchange receipts in U.S. dollars or sterling derived f rom wool exports previously surrendered 100 per cent at M$N 5.00 per US$1 were now surrenderable 50 per cent at the M$N 5.00 rate and 50 per cent at the M$N 7.50 rate. July 23 The validity of issued exchange licenses was in fu tu re restricted to licenses for imports for which commercial credits are opened. This order did not apply to exchange licenses "without use of exchange" or exchange licenses for imports effected on a deferred payments basis. August Exports of greasy or washed wool to Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Para- guay, Peru, and Uruguay, and to countries outside the Western Hemi- sphere w i th wh ich Argentina has not concluded payments agreements had to be paid for in U.S. dollars or in Argentine account sterling. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exports to other countries in the Western Hemisphere had to be paid for in U.S. dollars. Exports to countries with which Argentina has concluded paymen ts agreements could be paid for also in the currency provided for in the agreement. The M$N 6.25 rate was applied to payments in dollars or sterling, the M$N 5.00 rate to payments in other currencies. September 2 and 9 The buy ing rate for exchange receipts derived f rom exports of processed meats and meat produc ts was changed f rom M$N 7.50 to the f ree market rate. The buying rate for exchange receipts derived f rom exports of crushed bone and bone meal was changed f rom M$N 7.50 to the f ree market rate. September 15 The buy ing rate for exchange receipts derived f rom exports of salted or cured beef was changed f rom 100 per cent at M$N 7.50 to 50 per cent at M$N 7.50 and 50 per cent at the f r ee market rate. October 8 Private banks could obtain loans in dollars or sterling for minimum periods of 180 days without special au thor iza t ion f rom the Central Bank, provided the exchange is transferred f rom abroad. When the owners of the funds are domiciled abroad, the interest on these loans may be t rans fe r red at rates ranging f rom 6 per cent annua l ly for a loan of 180 days to 8 per cent annually for a loan of 900 days. The loans may be re transferred abroad. The rate of exchange for the in i t ial import of fore ign funds, for withdrawals, and for remittances of interest is that ruling in the f ree market on the day of the initial opera t ion or of its renewal. October 20 The buy ing rate for exchange receipts derived f rom exports of queb racho and urunday extracts was changed f rom 100 per cent at M$N 7.50 to 60 per cent at M$N 7.50 and 40 per cent at the f ree market rate. November 25 The buy ing rate for dollar or sterling proceeds derived f rom exports of raw sheepskins was changed f rom M$N 5.00 to M$N 6.25. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls were introduced into Indonesia on May 10, 1940. Since then they have been changed considerably. Restrictions are exercised through licensing and restrictions on imports. In the case of dollar imports and exports, there is a small premium on the official dollar exchange rates. Payments for invisibles are limited to some extent. The currency and method of payment are prescribed for each transaction. Exports are subject to license, and all fore ign exchange proceeds must be surrendered. Exchange Rate System The middle rate for the Indonesian Rupiah is Rp 11.40 per US$1, the off ic ial rates being Rp 11.355 buying, Rp 11.445 selling, per US$1. In the case of commercial U.S. dollar transactions, exporters and importers receive or have to pay a premium in addition to the official rates. This premium is inherent to the use of dollar export certificates. These certificates are not negotiable and, actually, they are no longer issued since the moment of their use has been synchronized with dollar export and import payments which are effected through author- ized banks at fixed rates. The local currency equivalent of a dollar export certificate is paid to sellers of dollars (bo th Canadian and United States) to the extent of 70 per cent of the proceeds of exports surrendered at the app l icab le rate; this rate is fixed weekly by the Javasche Bank in agreement with the Foreign Exchange Institute, but it has remained unchanged, at Rp 0.25 per US$1, since August 26, 1952. The equivalent of 100 per cent at this rate has to be paid to an authorized bank by those authorized to make dollar payments for imports and related expenses. Exceptions are made for imports of a special nature (e.g., rice and flour), those made under MSA arrangements, and exchange transac- tions which are in the nature of reversals of previous transactions, e.g., refunds, when the original rate applies. These certificates are nominally expressed in U.S. dollars. If the demand for these certifi- cates should exceed the supply, they are freely supplied by the Foreign Exchange Institute to the authorized banks against payment in local currency. The Foreign Exchange Institute collects a fee of % per cent and a statistical tax of ^ per cent on all imports and exports. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Institute on whose behalf combined import and exchange licenses are issued by a Central Bureau of Imports. Control is actually managed by the Javasche Bank and the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized exchange banks and in the currency stipulated on the license. Pay- ments to and f rom OEEC countries can be settled in Netherlands guilders through Indonesia's account with the Netherlands Bank. Payments to and receipts from South American countries are also settled largely through that same account. By arrangements with the governments concerned, Indonesia obtains reimbursement of foreign exchange f rom the Netherlands for Indonesian goods re-exported through the Netherlands and from Singapore and Malaya for Indo- nesian goods re-exported to the dollar area. Nonresident Accounts There are two classes of nonresident accounts: 1. Accounts of foreign banks. These are freely convertible into the currency of the country of the operating bank, and the balances may be freely transferred to accounts of nonresident banks of the same monetary area. 2. All other nonresident accounts. The opening of these accounts and all entries require permission from the Foreign Exchange Institute. For nonresident accounts of private persons, the authorized exchange banks have been given permission to make routine personal payments in Indonesia and yearly transfers up to a maximum of Rp 15,000 in the currency of the nonresident out of his current income. These accounts are designated as Capital and Income accounts, respectively, transfers from the former to the latter requiring approval. Imports and Import Payments A provisional import license is first issued by the Central Import Regulation Office on behalf of the Foreign Exchange Institute. Before this provisional document can be transformed into final form, i.e., a combined import and exchange license, the importer must obtain a statement from an authorized bank showing that an advance payment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 319 of 40 per cent1 of the rupiah equivalent at the official selling rate of exchange has been paid to the Foreign Exchange Fund and that, where "inducement" certificates —so called because originally they were given as inducements to exporters of certain marginal exports2— are required, the importer has already deposited their value. The combined import-exchange license enables the import to be effected and the foreign exchange specified on the license (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) to be obtained f rom an authorized exchange bank. For import licensing purposes, four lists of articles are issued. Group A contains essential goods which may be imported without restriction as to amount; Group B, items of a less essential character which may also be imported without limitation as to amount, but on which a sales tax is levied by means of "inducement" certificates cover- ing 100 per cent of the value of the import;3 Group C contains only a few items of a semi-luxury character which may also be imported without limitation as to amount, but "inducement" certificates cover- ing 200 per cent of the value of the goods are requ ired; Group D contains items for which no official exchange is provided, so that their import is confined largely to resident foreign nationals who are per- mitted to retain nontrade exchange holdings in their own currency; it is, however, necessary to provide "inducement" certificates covering 200 per cent of the value of such imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles are sub ject to a special license from the Foreign Exchange Institute, although for items which represent the current income of individuals abroad, and for such items as rents, dividends, etc., foreign exchange is freely granted up to certain limits in accordance with general licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Institute to the authorized banks. To foreign nationals resident in 1 Effective April 1, 1953, the percentage of the advance payment was increased to 75. 2 Effective January 23, 1953, the name "inducement" certificate was replaced by "TPI" certificate (additional import levy) in accordance with the historical development of these certificates, and simultaneously an additional category of merchandise was created for which such cer t if ica tes were required for 33-1/3 per cent of the import value. 8 Effective January 23, 1953, this group was subdivided into B.I and B.II, the former requiring "TPI" certificates for 33-1/3 per cent of the value, and the latter requiring certificates for 100 per cent, as previously. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Indonesia, foreign exchange is supplied, up to certain limits, for private remittances, such as the maintenance of families abroad, children's educational expenses, the remittance of savings, and the transfer of capital after the owner's repatriation. For remittances in respect of profits, dividends on direct investments, insurance, etc., general regulations have been issued by the Foreign Exchange Institute. For such items as advertising, film rentals, charitable remittances, legacies, etc., exchange is granted at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute, on individual application. Authorized payments for nontrade invisibles are effected at the off ic ial rate. The export of Indonesian and foreign banknotes and coin is prohibited, but residents going abroad are provided with small amounts of foreign banknotes to meet traveling expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exporters (with the exception of the oil companies, to which special arrangements apply) are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all fore ign exchange to which they are entitled. Exports must, as a rule, be financed by irrevocable bank credits, and the d r a f ts d rawn on such credits must be sight d ra f ts or short-term d ra f ts. Exports may not be invoiced in rupiah, but must be invoiced in a currency accep tab le to the Bureau for Exports. There are no general limitations as to the destination of exports, but the Bureau for Exports may withhold licenses for certain exports if, for example, the shipment should not conform with existing trade agreements. Those surrendering U.S. or Canad ian dollars benefit f rom the dollar export certificate premium on 70 per cent of the amount surrendered (see section on Exchange Ra te System, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled. Foreign nationals resident in Indonesia may retain any income in the currency of the country of their nationality, provided the income does not arise from foreign trade. The import of Indonesian banknotes and coin is prohibited. Foreign banknotes and coin may be imported on the condition that they are surrendered to the Javasche Bank at the official buying rate. Visitors staying in Indonesia no longer than three months may have their foreign currency returned to them when they leave, insofar as it has not been sold to the Javasche Bank already. A f ter three months, the visitor intending to re-export his foreign currency has to apply for a special license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 321 Capital Residents are required to surrender exchange f rom capital, and approval is not normally given for capital payments abroad. There are no limitations on nonresidents remitting into Indonesia capital, wh ich, if it were in the fo rm of fore ign exchange, would have to be surrendered in accordance with the regulations. The repatriation of capital on behalf of nonresidents is sub ject to individual consideration by the Indonesian authorities. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (rupiah per U.S. dollar) Buying 11.355 (Official Rate) Selling 11.445 (Official Rate) Non-dollar exports and related expenses. All other invisibles and capital. Non-dollar imports and related expenses. A few essential dollar imports. Author- ized invisibles and capital. 11.53 (Official Rate plus 70% at Dollar Export Certificate Rate) 11.695 (Official Rate plus Dollar Export Certificate Rate) Dollar exports and related expenses. Other dollar imports and related ex- penses. Note: Additional import levies ( "induce- ment" certificates) amounting to 100% or 200% (according to the nature of the goods) of the import value are payable on certain imports. For changes effective January 23, 1953, see footnotes 2 and 3. Changes during 1952 February 4 The official rate was changed f rom Rp 3.80 to Rp 11.40 per US$1. Export cer t if ica tes were created, applicable only to dollar transactions, and were negotiable, the market rate then being around Rp 1.50 per US$1. Imports of less essential goods required an "inducement" certificate to be purchased at a price fixed at 70 per cent of the official selling price of the exchange required. To counteract w ind fa ll profits accruing to exporters under these new arrangements, additional export duties of 25 per cent were imposed on rubber and copra and of 15 per cent on palm oil, tea, oil, palm kernels, pepper, and coffee. May 12 The price of the dollar export certificates was fixed at Rp 1.20. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS June 1 The additional export duty on rubber was reduced from 25 per cent to 15 per cent until September 30, 1952. June 8 A list was published of luxury goods for which no more foreign exchange wou ld be made ava i lab le. The price of dollar export certificates was lowered to Rp 1.00. June 16 The price of dollar export certificates was lowered to Rp 0.80. June 25 The price of do l lar export certificates was lowered to Rp 0.70. July 14 The price of do l lar export certificates was lowered to Rp 0.60. August 1 The additional export duties (see February 4, above) were reduced as follows: rubber, from 15 per cent to 10 per cent; copra, from 25 per cent to 15 per cent;4 pa lm oil and kernels, from 15 per cent to 5 per cent. August 12 Import goods were listed in four categories: essential, less essential, semi-luxury, and luxury. For less essential imports, the levy of 70 per cent ("inducement" certificate requirement) was increased to 100 per cent. For the levy on semi-luxuries, a new rate was introduced representing 200 per cent on the official exchange rate. No official exchange was provided for the listed luxury goods. August 18 The price 6f dollar export certificates was lowered to Rp 0.40. August 25 The price of dollar export certificates was lowered to Rp 0.25. August 29 Advance deposits were required f rom all potential importers be fo re a final import-exchange license would be issued: 40 per cent of the rupiah equivalent of the exchange required, plus the total value of 4 Effective January 1, 1953, this add i t ional export du ty on copra was reduced to 10 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 323 any "inducement" certificates required, i.e., for less essential and semi- luxury items. September 1 The issuance of licenses by the Central Bureau of Imports was changed from a c.i.f.i.c. to an f.o.b. basis. October 11 The regulations regarding nonresident accounts (other than those of banks) were recodified. October 27 The basic official rates were adjusted from Rp 11.37 to Rp 11.355 buying, and from Rp 11.43 to Rp 11.445 selling, per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Origin and Essential Features Foreign exchange regulations were made effective by the Mandatory Government in 1939. When Israel became an independent state in 1948, exchange control was continued. The exchange rate structure was considerably revised on February 14, 1952 by the establishment of three fixed official rates. The exchange system comprises import restrictions, with exchange licensing applied to all trade and nontrade payments, and a multiple currency practice consisting of three fixed rates applied to d i f fe rent specified transactions. All exports require licenses, and fore ign ex- change receipts, with certain exceptions, must be surrendered. Exchange Rate System The off ic ial rate of exchange is Israeli Pound 1 = US$2.80. A second rate of exchange has been fixed at I£l = US$1.40, and a third rate of exchange at I£l = US$1.00. Each rate is applicable to specified transactions (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). Administration of Control Exchange control is exercised by the Exchange Control Department of the Treasury under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other government agencies and banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be made in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Payments with coun- tries with which payments agreements are in force are usually settled in U.S. dollars, Israeli pounds, or the currency of the partner country. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses. Certain of these licenses are issued on the understanding that no official exchange will be granted in payment of the import. In respect of other licenses, exchange is automatically granted. Payments for a few specified highly essential imports (Sched- ule C) are effected at the $2.80 rate; payments for certain other essen- tial imports (Schedule D) are effected at the $1.40 rate; and payments for all other authorized imports are effected at the $1.00 rate. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 325 Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad require licenses. Most au thor ized payments are made at the $1.00 rate. The annual t ran s fer of prof i ts, interest, and repayment of loans to a max imum of 10 per cent of invested capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encouragement of For- eign Investments (1950) is allowed. The exportation of Israeli cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire licenses. Exchange proceeds in "designated" currencies ,1 w i th cer ta in exceptions, must be surrendered. Certain spec if ied exports (Schedu le B) must be surrendered at the $1.40 rate. All other export proceeds are surrendered at the $1.00 rate.2 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f r om insurance, ma in tenance payments, personal g if ts, legacies, commissions, income f rom investments ab road, tourists, and d ip loma t ic expend i tures are surrendered at the $1.00 rate. Ex- change proceeds f rom con tr ibu t ions by organizations must be sur- rendered at the $1.40 rate, and f rom all other invisibles, at the $2.80 rate. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring w i th them the amoun ts of fore ign currency that they will need du r ing their stay. Special Tourist Letters of Credit can be acquired at points of arrival against fo re ign cu r rency. Unspent balances of such Letters of Credit can be reconver ted in to the original fore ign currency at points of departure. Declared fo re ign currency can be taken out. The importa- tion of Israeli currency is prohibited. Capital Ou tward t ran s fe rs of capital are usually not approved. The invest- ment of fore ign capital under the terms of the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investments (1950) requires approval if the investor wishes to benef it f r om the facilities granted by the Law. Foreign capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law is surrendered at the 1 "Designated" currencies are those of the fo l low ing coun tr ies: Australia, Bel- gian Congo, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Iceland, India, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Ne the r lands West Indies, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippine Republic, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States, and U ruguay. 2 Effec t ive February 8, 1953, this rate was applied to the exchange proceeds of all exports made since September 1, 1952. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS $1.00 rate. The investment of foreign capital in securities, mortgages, real estate, etc., is entirely free. The investment of foreign capital is not subject to approval if the investors do not intend to request the application of the above Law, in which case the sale of exchange takes place at the $1.00 rate or such other rate as may be agreed on. The rate of exchange for proceeds of government loans and grants may be $2.80, $1.40, or $1.00, accord ing to the conditions agreed on. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (U.S. dollars per Israeli pound) Buying Selling 2.80 Government loans and grants designated for sale at this rate. All transactions not made at the other rates. 2.80 Schedule C imports (essential foods) .4 1.40 Appeals and contributions. Schedule B exports.3 Government loans and grants designated for sale at this rate. 1.40 Schedule D goods).4 imports (less essential 1.00 All other transactions, including income derived from approved investments. 1.00 Exports other than those in Schedule B.3 Tourists and diplomatic. Life in- surance. Investment approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investment (1950). Government loans and grants designated for sale at this rate. Income from invest- ments abroad. Individuals' receipts of maintenance, gifts, and legacies. Com- missions and fees. Changes during 1952 February 14 Three fixed, official exchange rates became effective and the trans- actions and commodities to which each rate applied were specified. 8 See footnote 2. 4 Effective May 1, 1953, Schedules C and D were canceled. Exchange for im- ports of wheat, hard wheat, wheat flour, sugar, and candy sugar continued to be provided at the $2.80 rate, but exchange for all other imports was provided at the $1,00 rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 327 June 18 The import into Israel of Israeli currency was prohibited. October 26 Purchases of foreign exchange f rom tourists and diplomats were per- mitted at the $1.00 rate, instead of the previously applied $1.40 rate. Rebates hitherto given to tourists paying with Tourist Letters of Credit acquired by the sale of foreign currency were withdrawn, except for the rebate of 15 per cent for purchases made in "Tourist Shops." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Origin and Essential Features Exchange con t rol was f irst in troduced in New Zealand on Decem- ber 7, 1938. In Ap r il 1940 the exchange control system was augmented by the issuance of F inance Emergency Regu la t ions, wh ich were ex- panded and revised in June 1940. In Ma rch 1950 control over S ter l ing Area currency and securities held by New Zea land residents was abol- ished, and on August 1, 1950 the t rad ing banks were au thor ized to make remittances in respect of imports w i thout re fe rence to the exchange control authorities. In 1951 and 1952 there were consider- able changes in the regulations a f fec t ing imports, ma in ly by ra t ion ing exchange to importers on the basis of their 1950 imports. The restric- tive system in New Zealand is exercised th rough impo rt l icens ing applied to goods imported f rom ha rd currency coun tr ies and a few others, and to motor vehicles f rom all sources, and th rough exchange licensing applied to payments for all other transactions, in c lud ing imports from so ft currency countries. Exchange Rate System The off ic ial rates for the New Zealand pound in terms of non - s te r l ing currency are based on the fixed rates for s te r l ing /New Zea land pounds and the U.S. do l lar /s ter l ing rate in the London ma rket ma in ta ined between the official limits. As at December 31, 1952, the t rad ing banks' rates for telegraphic t rans fe rs on London were £NZ 100/7/6 buy ing, £NZ 101 selling, per £100, and for U.S. dollars, US$2.802 buy ing, US$2.7695 selling, per £NZ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is given to the M in is ter of F inance, wrho, in accordance with the terms of the regu la t ion s, has delegated it to the Reserve Bank of New Zea land; howeve r, much of the rou t ine supe r- vision is done by the New Zealand t r ad ing ( c omm e r c i a l) banks. Prescription of Currency New Zealand, as one of the territories of the S ter l ing A rea, con fo rms to the prescription of cu r rency a r r ang em en ts and the exchange pay- men ts system of the Un i ted K ingdom (see Un i ted K ingdom, section on Prescr ip t ion of C u r r e n c y ). 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 329 Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom "scheduled" coun tr ies 1 and imports of motor vehicles f r om all countries require import licenses. In respect of these licenses, exchange is au toma t ica l ly made ava i lab le by the au thor ized banks. Ce r ta in goods f rom other, i.e., nonschedu led, countries also require import licenses wh ich are issued on the basis that they carry no assur- ance t h at exchange will be provided. The allocation of exchange in payment of most impor ts (regardless of whe ther or not an import license is requ i red) is sub ject to a system of exchange rationing by wh ich the t rad ing banks may no t, w i thout the approval of the Reserve Bank, sell to any impor ter dur ing 1952 more than 80 per cent of the amount of exchange sold in 1950 to that same importer.2 In addition to these l im i ta t ions, payments can be made only in the manner pre- scr ibed in the regu la t ions (see section on P resc r ip t ion of Cu r rency, abov e ). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the Reserve Bank. In general, con trac tual paymen ts are approved w i thout limitation. Paymen ts to other territories of the Sterling Area are not restricted, except for cap i tal exports by New Zea land residents, travel allowances, and a few m inor items. Noncon t rac tual remittances to countries out- side the Sterling Area are treated on their merits, very strict scrutiny being given to remittances to hard currency areas. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Depar tment provided the transaction is being cleared through a trad- ing bank through wh ich the net export proceeds will be received in a m ann er c o n f o rm i ng to the regu la t ions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and fo re ign exchange surrendered (other than S ter l ing Area cu r renc ies ). 1 These coun tr ies are listed in the New Zealand regulations as fo l low s: Albania, Argen t ina, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, French Soma l i land, Germany (Russian Zone ), Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Mexico, Nica- ragua, Panama, Ph i l ipp ine Repub l ic, Po land, Ruman ia, Tangier, Uruguay, United States, U.S.S.R., Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. 2 For 1953 the percentage has been reduced August 5, 1952. to 40 per cent, as announced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts of non-Sterling Area currencies have to be sold to a bank in New Zealand. No control is exercised over the disposal of Sterling Area currency receipts other than from exports. Capital Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand resi- dents require the prior permission of the Reserve Bank. Capital remit- tances to non-Sterling Area countries are not normally approved. Capital receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be surrendered or declared to the Reserve Bank. No control is exercised over the disposal of receipts in Sterling Area currencies. Changes during 1952 February 4 The sterling exchange allowance for travel to the continent of Europe was reduced from £100 to £50 per adult. March 11 It was announced that the open general license for imports from the Sterling Area and EPU countries would be suspended; that all licenses to import from Canada, Japan, and the United States would be subject to cancellation and reconsideration; and that imports of motor vehicles from any source would be controlled. March 31 It was announced that the trading banks had been advised not to sell to any importer during 1952, except with approval of the Reserve Bank, more than 80 per cent of the exchange sold to that importer during 1950. June 6 August 4 Certain commodities were listed as being exempt f rom import licens- ing if imported from soft currency countries. August 5 The percentage of 1950 exchange which the trading banks could sell to importers for 1953 imports was announced as 40 per cent, compared with 80 per cent for 1952 (see March 31, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Origin and Essential Features Exchange controls were introduced in Portugal on September 24, 1914 and revoked on October 18, 1937. During World War II and un t il 1947, a few controls were maintained —in most cases imposed by the terms of bilateral payments agreements. In the summer of 1947, controls were re-established to the effect that any transaction in sterling or dollars had to be d irec t ly related to the Portuguese Mone- tary Area and the Sterling or Dollar Area, respectively. By the late summer of 1947, an increased number of goods was subjected to import licensing restrictions. On February 9, 1948, general registration of imports and exports was in troduced. Subsequently, imports f rom the dollar area or payab le in hard currencies were sub ject to increasing restrictions, while imports f rom EPU countries, or payable in EPU currencies, were liberalized. The exchange rate system is un i fo rm. Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in a currency and manner prescribed by the provisions of bilateral trade and payments agreements or determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination of goods and services involved. All imports are sub ject to a previous registration. Some imports from EPU countries and their overseas territories and most imports from all other countries are sub ject to individual licensing; payments to EPU countries on account of many categories of invisibles are free ly permitted. All exports are sub ject to a registration requirement. Certain exports to any coun try and all exports to other than EPU countries payable in a currency of any EPU country are subject to individual licensing. Export proceeds as well as exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. A specified percentage of proceeds accru ing from specified exports to EPU countries is temporarily blocked. Transfers of capital require approva l; however, such transfers to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are permitted w i th in the terms of the related agreement. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Exchange Rate System The pa r i ty of the escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar is Esc 28.75215 = US$1. Off ic ial rates are Esc 28.60 buying, Esc 28.95 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates are un i fo rm. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Exchange Control Territory Portugal and Portuguese overseas territories * constitute a single exchange control territory, the "Portuguese Monetary Area"; between the components of this area, exchange control restrictions practically do not exist. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are applied almost un iform ly throughout the Portuguese Monetary Area, current payments between its various territories being effec ted through con- trolled accounts. Administration of Control Trade controls are administered by a Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy and the Council of Min- isters as policy-making bodies, and by a Directorate-General of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economy which administers trade controls. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the Directorate-General's office. Ex- change controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal with the assistance of commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in a currency and in a manner prescribed by the provisions of bilateral trade and payments agreements or determined on the basis of the country of origin or the destination of the goods or services involved. Any deviation f rom the general regulations in this matter requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration mainly in order to enforce the prescription of currency regulations. The presentation of the reg- istration fo rm to the customs enables the import to be cleared. Some imports f rom EPU countries and their overseas territories,2 imports from other than EPU countries payable in a currency of any EPU 1The Azores, Madeira, the Cape Verde Islands, Portuguese Guinea, Sao Joao Baptista de Ad juda, the Islands of Sao Tom6 and Principe, Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese Indies (Goa, Damao, D iu), Macao, and Portuguese Timor. 2 These countries are listed as follows: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 333 country, and most imports f rom other countries are sub ject to indi- vidual licenses which are issued with the registration form. Most goods of a value less than Esc 2,500 may be f ree ly imported f rom EPU countries and their associated territories. App rop r ia te exchange is au toma t ica l ly granted for au thor ized imports. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts on account of invisibles in fore ign currency or by c red i t ing nonresident accounts in excess of Esc 2,500 are subject to ind iv idual licensing. For lesser amounts, such payments are made if the applicant undertakes to produce documentary evidence of the ob l iga t ion, should proof be required later. Payments to countries with wh i ch Portugal has payments agreements are f ree ly permitted w i th in the terms of the related agreement. Payments in favor of persons residing in any of the EPU countries are freely permitted on account of costs incidental to exports and imports without any limitation as to amount, and up to Esc 100,000 on account of various categories of current payments. Travelers may take out any amount in Portu- guese and fo re ign bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are sub ject to registration mainly in order to secure the en fo r c em ent of the prescription of currency and surrender obligation regulations. Certain exports to any country and all exports to other than EPU countries payable in the currency of an EPU country are sub ject to individual licensing. Export proceeds have to be surren- dered. Thirty per cent of proceeds accruing f rom specified exports (above the value of Esc 2,500) paid in the currency of an EPU country or in escudos by debiting the escudo account of a person domiciled in an EPU country, as well as 30 per cent of proceeds f rom specified exports to Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, and Turkey expressed in any third currency and to Switzerland if paid to the account of the Bank of Portugal with the National Bank of Switzerland, are blocked. Their deblocking is effec ted as soon as Por- tugal's favorab le balance toward EPU fa l ls below a specified limit. Proceeds from Invisibles Payments on account of invisibles due f rom persons residing in EPU countries can be freely received by Portuguese residents on account of costs incidental to exports and imports without any limitation as to the amount, and on account of a variety of other categories of invisi- bles —up to Esc 100,000. The ind iv idual permit of the Bank of Portugal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS is required in all other cases. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Capital Transfers of capital to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are free ly permitted within the terms of the related agree- ment. Other capital transfers require approval. Exchange receipts f rom capital must be surrendered. Changes during 1952 January 15 Imports f rom EPU countries were entirely liberalized. February 3 Licensing of imports f rom the dollar area was temporarily restricted in order to stimulate imports f rom EPU countries. February 11 Payments to and from EPU countries on account of many categories of invisibles, in most cases up to a limit of Esc 100,000, were freely permitted. February 26 Thirty per cent of proceeds accruing f rom specified exports (above the value of Esc 2,500) paid in the currency of an EPU country or in escudos by debiting the escudo account of a person domiciled in an EPU country, as well as 30 per cent of proceeds f rom specified exports to Austria, the Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Greece, Italy, and Tur- key expressed in any th i rd currency, and to Switzerland if paid to the account of the Bank of Portugal with the National Bank of Switzer- land, were subject to blocking. These proceeds were to be freed as soon as Portugal's credit position in EPU fa l ls below a specified level. The Council of Ministers was authorized to exempt specified exports f rom the blocking requirements. March 17 A list of goods, the export proceeds of wh ich were sub ject to blocking requirements, was published. Changes in the list were made on May 2, May 27, June 19, September 6, October 2, and November 4, 1952. May 1 The l ibe ra l iza t ion of imports f rom EPU countries was app l ied on the basis of 75 per cent of 1948 import values. Previously, all imports from EPU countries had been f ree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Origin and Essential Features Controls were introduced in Spain on May 31, 1931; since then they have been continuously applied, with various modifications. On December 3, 1948 a system of multiple exchange rates based on cate- gories of merchandise was established. By a decree of July 21, 1950, a "free" exchange market was introduced for specified currencies. The system was revised November 1, 1951; since then payments on account of merchandise have been effected at either "free" market or fixed rates or various percentage, combinations of these; this multiple exchange rate system comprises altogether seven effective buying rates and seven effective selling rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). All imports and payments for invisibles are subject to individual licensing. All exports are subject to individual licensing, and exchange proceeds have to be surrendered. Foreign capital transactions also are subject to license. Exchange Rate System The official basic rates are Pesetas 10.95 buying, Pesetas 11.22 selling,1 per US$1. The use of these rates is limited to government transactions. For other purposes, there is an official buying rate of Pts 21.90 per US$1 and three official selling rates, Pts 16.425, Pts 21.90, and Pts 25.00 per US$1. Other effective rates are produced by com- bining certain percentages at one of these rates with the balance at a "free" official market rate, currently Pts 39.65 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Only authorized banks are permitted to operate on the "free" market, acting as intermediaries between buyers (who require permits from the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute) and sellers of specified currencies.2 As the demand and supply of "free" currencies are subject 1 Pts 10.95 plus Pts 0.27 (banking commission of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute). 2 The currencies dealt in on the "free" market are as follows: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Moroccan francs, Mexican pesos, guilders, Norwegian kroner, escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; escudos and Swiss francs in agreement accounts; pounds sterling in the "Iceland" account; U.S. dollars of account with Bolivia, Brazil, Cuba, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Mexico, Italy, Paraguay, and Turkey; and banknotes in bolivares, Colombian pesos, cruzeiros, Deutsche marks, soles, and Uruguayan pesos. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS to the control exercised by the authorities over exchange transactions, the forma t ion of "free" market rates is affec ted by the decisions of the Spanish trade and exchange control authorities and the intervention of the latter in the exchange ma rke t. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, Spanish Zone of Morocco, and the Spanish colonies constitute a single exchange control territory, the "Spanish Monetary Area." Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute; on a technical administrative level, by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, the General Depar tment of Commerce and Tar iff Policy in the Ministry of Commerce, and by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchand ise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and in the manner prescribed in the provisions of bilateral trade and payments agreements or determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination of the goods and services involved. The prescription of currency requirements are operated through an individual licensing system to which all categories of exchange payments are subject. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import and exchange licenses wh ich are issued in combined fo rm by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute a f ter consultation with the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. Foreign exchange is made available for authorized imports through official allocations or the "free" market mechanism. Sub ject to the approval of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, non- residents can import essential materials and use the proceeds accruing f rom their sale for spec i f ica l ly determined expenses and investments in Spain. Specific industries grouped on a national or regional basis are permitted to make imports needed for production of their export goods out of their own retained exchange (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 337 Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of non- residents on account of invisibles are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Practically all of them are effec ted at the "free" market rate. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a max imum of Pts 2,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are sub ject to ind iv idual licenses issued by the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. This requirement is established ma in ly in order to determine the exchange rate app l icab le to the proceeds, and to en fo rce currency prescription and surrender regulations. Proceeds acc ru ing f rom exports must be surrendered to authorized banks or sold th rough the ir intermediary on the "free" exchange market. In accordance with the arrangement called "Special Operations/' specific indus tr ies grouped on a na t ional or regional basis are permitted to retain the ir export proceeds to be used for payment of impor ted raw materials or other goods needed by them for their own p roduc t ion; in certain cases, special rates for spec if ied exports are de term ined. There are a l toge ther 11 "Special Operations" arrange- ments in existence, 7 of wh ich have a regional applicability. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds must be sold on the "free" market if payab le in currencies dealt in on that ma rke t, or surrendered to au tho r ized banks if payab le in other currencies. The "free" market rates are applicable to the purchase of proceeds acc ru ing f rom p rac t ica l ly all categories of invisibles. Persons may b r ing in a max imum of Pts 10,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital All ou twa rd capital transfers are sub ject to ind iv idual approval. All inward and ou tward private cap i tal t rans fe rs must be effected at the "free" market rates. Special fac i l i t ies are accorded to investments effec ted by nonres iden ts in Spain th rough the impor ta t ion of essential goods (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1952) (pesetas per UJS. dollar) Buying 10.95 (Official Basic Rate) Setting 11.22 (Official Basic Rate plus Commis- sion) Government payments, including im- ports of rationed foodstuffs. 16.425 Imports in Group A: coal, coke, and pitch. 21.90 (Special Export Rate) Exports not listed in Groups 1-5. 21.90 23.675 (90% at Pts 21.90 and 10% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 1: chestnuts, cocoa, cork (semimanufactured products), fresh fish, fruit trees, livestock, olives, etc. 27.225 (70% at Pts 21.90 and 30% at "Free" Market Rate) Exports in Group 2: almond oil, apri- cots, cherries", cider, cork manufactures, figs, dried fish, gypsum, peaches, pears, plums, potash, vegetables, etc. 25.00 Imports in Group E: liquid fuels and tobacco. 25.715 (60% at Pts 16.425 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group B: aluminum scrap, copper, copper alloys, creosote, ores (metallic), phosphates, metal scrap, seeds, sleepers, tinplate, etc. 29.00 (60% a* Pts 21.90 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group C: a lum inum, chro- mium, cobalt, ferroalloys, fertilizers, fibers (hard), fishing lines, threads and nets, insecticides, jute, etc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 339 Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesetas per UJS. dollar) Buying 30.775 (50% at Pts 21.90 and 50% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 3: almonds, bananas, chemicals, clays and silicates, tanned hides, grapes, lemons, essential oils, onions, oranges, paper, peanuts, toma- toes, etc. Selling 32.55 (40% at Pts 21.90 and 60% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group D: raw materials for abrasives, asbestos, asphalt, hemp, lu- bricants, railway materials. Raw mate- rials for refractories, tar, vaseline, etc. 34.325 (30% at Pts 21.90 and 70% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 4: berets, ceramics and glass, hats, shoes and leather articles, perfumes, vinegar, wine, etc. 37.875 (10% at Pts 21.90 and 90% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 5: books, handmade rugs, wolfram, etc. 39.65 ("Free" Official Market Rate) Invisibles. Capital. Note: The above rates apply to exchange receipts in the specified currencies. 39.65 ("Free" Official Market Rate) All other imports. Authorized invisibles and capital. Changes during 1952 July 5 Subject to the approval of the Foreign Exchange Institute, non- residents could use the proceeds accruing from the sale of imported essential materials for specified expenses and investments in Spain. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Origin and Essential Features In Switzerland there is no over-all control of foreign exchange. However, in practice exchange is controlled in respect of countries with wh ich Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Since October 14, 1933, a law au thor iz ing the Swiss Federal Council to restrict imports and exports, to conclude payments agreements, and to control pay- ments relating to countries wh ich have restricted the ir payments constitutes the legal basis of Switzerland's payments and trade control regulations. While the number of bilateral agreements has gradua l ly increased and now covers Switzerland's trade and /or payments with 22 countries or monetary areas,1 and while Switzerland has regulated her payments t ra f f ic w i th three other countries,2 payments may free ly be made to and accepted f rom the rest of the wor ld. Though imports of a considerable number of goods are being controlled, import licenses are, with relatively few exceptions, granted w i thout quantitative re- striction. Imports f rom EPU countries are liberalized in accordance with the OEEC code of l ibera l iza t ion. The export and re-export of a number of goods are sub ject to control. Exchange Rate System The Swiss Na t ional Bank m a i n t a i ns the U.S. do l lar rate in a f ree ma rket be tween the l im i ts of Sw fr 4.28 b u y i n g, and Sw fr 4.46 selling, per US$1. Since September 1949, the upper l im it of the do l lar has in practice been Sw fr 4.3728 per US$1, co r respond ing to the gold pa r i ty of the Swiss f r an c. In accordance w i th the prov is ions of several pay- ments agreements, off ic ial fixed rates for specified currencies are applied. In a few cases, va r iab le rates are in u s e; these rates are based on the exchange rate system of the respective coun tr ies. In December 1952, the gold con tent of the f r a nc was approved by the Federal Assembly at 63/310 (= 0.203 225 8) grams of fine gold. 1 These are listed as Argen t ina, Au s t r i a, Belgian Mone ta ry A rea, Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, French Monetary Area, Federal Re- public of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Ne ther lands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom and o ther territories of the Sterling Area, and Yugoslavia. 2 These are Eastern Germany, Iran, and the Po r tuguese Mone tary A rea. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SW ITZERLAND 341 Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the dura t ion of the treaty between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein of Ma rch 29, 1923, concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports and exports and of payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the proposals of the Federal Political Department, and, especially, of the Federal Department of Public Economy. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchand ise transactions and invisibles with certain countries are prescribed in the sector of controlled payments in accordance with the provisions of the related payments agreements and /or by the Swiss regulations. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving the prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts established and operated in accordance with the exchange control regulations applicable to the sector of controlled payments are controlled, but other nonresident accounts are free of control. Imports and Import Payments A considerable number of goods are admitted into Switzerland on the ground of an import license on ly; but in accordance with her present l iberal import policy, licenses are, generally speaking, granted w i thout quan t i ta t ive limitation. However, quotas are established for certain agricultural products and, as far as industrial products are conce rned, for heavy motor vehicles and agricultural tractors. Settlements are effected automatically for authorized imports f rom countries to wh ich the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries can be free ly effected through the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Payments for Invisibles Payments to countries in the sector of controlled payments are permitted within the terms of the related agreement and/or the Swiss regulations. In all other cases, payments can be freely effected. The importation of Swiss or foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of many goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Proceeds accruing f rom exports to controlled-payment countries are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. The other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds accruing from invisibles and originating in controlled- payment countries are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations, whereas such proceeds f rom other countries are freely disposable. The exportation of Swiss and other banknotes is free. Banknotes Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Capital Transfers of capital to countries in the sector of controlled payments are permitted within the terms of the related agreement and the Swiss regulations; however, transfers of capital exceeding Sw fr 500,000 to and from those countries require a license. Transfers to countries in the sector of free payments can be effected without such requirement. Changes during 1952 June 20 Export controls were extended. July 1 In addition to other service fees collected under existing payments arrangements with foreign countries, a service charge of one half of one per cent was imposed on all Swiss payments to members of EPU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 343 Swiss restrictions on the import and export of gold bars and coins were abolished; however, a 4 per cent sales tax was applied on both imports and exports. (In accordance with a regulation of Decem- ber 25, 1951, the import and export of gold have been subject to an individual permit from the Swiss National Bank.) December 8 Export controls were fu r ther extended. December 17 The Federal Assembly approved the revision of the coinage law. The gold content of the f ranc was fixed at 0.203 225 8 or 63/310 grams of fine gold. This confirmed legally the then existing value of the Swiss f ranc in terms of gold. December 19 The import and transit of live animals were made subject to control. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 