 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1995 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1995 International Monetary Fund Price: US$76.00 (US$38.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. Internet: publications@imf.org The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-509-4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10,1995 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1995, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director Ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction , Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica CONTENTS Page vii 1 Page 3 6 8 12 15 17 20 23 25 29 31 34 38 40 45 49 53 55 57 61 62 65 68 75 78 83 86 88 93 96 98 102 106 110 116 120 122 126 129 133 136 140 143 145 146 V Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Page 148 150 153 156 158 161 164 166 170 174 176 181 185 187 189 192 1% 199 201 203 206 208 211 213 215 217 222 225 234 239 242 245 247 250 252 255 258 262 265 269 270 275 278 280 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vi CONTENTS Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Lithuania Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Page 284 286 288 290 293 295 298 302 305 310 312 315 319 320 323 325 328 329 331 333 339 341 345 347 350 353 355 358 360 364 368 371 373 380 382 385 387 389 395 400 402 404 407 412 415 417 419 421 423 Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix. EU: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1994 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Definition of Acronyms Page 425 427 431 433 436 438 441 443 445 448 452 455 461 466 470 472 474 476 480 482 485 488 492 494 4% 502 507 509 511 514 516 518 523 525 527 529 532 536 538 541 546 549 554 562 569 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of offi- cial visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Regime and Market Operations Division of the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department. It draws on the spe- cialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's seven Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. The report was edited and its production coordi- nated by Gail Berre of the External Relations Department. Design and composi- tion were done by the IMF Graphics Section. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1994, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1995. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is bro- ken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes dur- ing 1994 and in early 1995. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade sys- tems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such fea- tures as import licensing, advance import deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1994 (and 1995) includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions, such as major revisions of import tar- iffs or developments in regional cooperation, but are not necessarily reflected in the body of the coun- try descriptions. The description given in the section Exchange Arrangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1994, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Resident/Nonresident Accounts, and, in some instances, External Accounts or Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, main- tained in its currency by account holders who are residents or not regarded as residents of that coun- try, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident/nonresident account, the nature and oper- ation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individ- ual license," which may be given either freely or restrictively according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisi- bles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. In some 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION countries, there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given/ and any limitations on the importation of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrange- ments or limitations attached to international capi- tal movements are described. When regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the prin- cipal regulations that govern the holding, negotia- tion, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to (1) a few transactions of the central Government (mainly debt-service payments); and (2) certain foreign cur- rency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling exchange rates for the U.S. dollar were Af 1,000 and Af 1,025, re- spectively, per US$1. Almost all other official transactions are con- ducted at a commercial rate set by the Government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. Between May and December 1989, the previously complex multiple exchange rate system was simpli- fied significantly. Different mixed rates that had ap- plied to proceeds in convertible currencies for nine principal exports were abolished, and proceeds from exports in convertible currencies were shifted to the commercial exchange rate. In December 1989, most public sector transactions, with the exception of debt servicing, were also moved to the commer- cial exchange rate. The commercial exchange rate was, however, not closely linked to the free market rate. Between December 1989 and February 1991, it was closely linked to the free market rate. In Febru- ary 1991, it was maintained at Af 734 per US$1, and subsequently a significant premium developed be- tween the commercial and free market exchange rates. The central bank limited sales of foreign ex- change to five essential commodities (tea, vegetable oil, medicines, powdered milk, and soap) in March 1991. The official exchange rate now applies to no more than 10 percent of convertible currency trans- actions. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). The exchange rate appliedto transactions of international organizations is set at 80 percent of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French franc, Indian rupees, Pakistani rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. No official restrictions are applied to transactions in the free exchange market. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghani- stan maintains bilateral payments agreements1 are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Some of these have been inactive for several years and others are being phased out. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. The importation of a few items (e.g., certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) is pro- hibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special per- mission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Ad- justments in the public sector import plan are made as circumstances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indica- tive. The importation of petroleum products was a state monopoly until late 1992. In light of recent oil shortages, however, the private sector has been al- lowed to import and distribute petroleum. 1Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Russian Federation, and the Slovak Republic. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN The present customs tariff structure, promul- gated in June 1974, changed little until May 1989. At that time, tariff rates on most consumer items were adjusted upward to 30-50 percent from their former range of about 20-35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertak- ing by the importer to import goods of at least equivalent value to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are re- quired to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open letters of credit. In January 1990, the deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, were adjusted downward to 20 percent from 25 percent for essential products and upward to a range of 30-60 percent from a range of 20- 50 percent for other products. Payments for Invisibles The maximum amount that can be taken out of the country for tourist travel abroad is the equiva- lent of $1,000 a trip, except for travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. On appli- cation, foreign exchange is allocated for business travel and for medical treatment abroad, and the amounts are determined by Da Afghanistan Bank; normally, the limits are $15,000 for business and $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign exchange for other private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. The central bank levies a charge of Af 0.75 per US$1 and 1 percent of hard currency for permits that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. For medical treat- ment and business travel, the central bank levies Af 0.75 per US$1. Travelers may take out not more than Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to li- cense, but export transactions must be registered. The exportation of a few products (e.g., opium and museum pieces) is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Export proceeds from bilateral ac- counts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may be either used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in con- vertible currencies, export proceeds may be re- tained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant pe- riod, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. However, proceeds from seven items (raisins, fresh fruits, ani- mal casings, skins, licorice roots, medicinal herbs, and wool) must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by the Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private In- vestment Law No. 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974), which is currently under revision, has a number of provisions, including (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), be- ginning with the date of the first sale of products re- sulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on divi- dends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved in- vestment; (5) exemption from export duties, pro- vided that the products are not among the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 5 prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from en- terprises established under the law as long as the prices are not more than 15 percent higher than those of foreign suppliers. The law stipulates that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign participa- tion not exceeding 49 percent, and that an invest- ment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatri- ated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell do- mestically gold in any form. Imports and re-exports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Ex- ports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and other articles containing mi- nor quantities of gold or silver do not require a li- cense. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the Lek. The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the domes- tic market. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relation- ship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The Bank of Albania calculates and announces the daily aver- age exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. No margins are set between buy- ing and selling rates for the official exchange rate. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. However, the commercial banks charge com- missions ranging from 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks.1 On December 31, 1994, the official (mid- dle) rate for the U.S. dollar was lek 95.39 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward exchange cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The foreign exchange market is governed by new regulations issued on May 1, 1994 by the Bank of Albania, under the authority of Decree No. 127 of March 25, 1994 of the Council of Ministers. The Bank of Albania is vested with the powers to ad- minister exchange controls. All commercial banks are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. The Bank of Albania may (1) authorize banks and other dealers to conduct foreign ex- change operations; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) supervise foreign exchange opera- tions to prevent any participant from dominating the market. It charges licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus and dealers with ensuring that their operations comply with foreign exchange reg- ulations. There is a reporting requirement by banks and exchange dealers for transactions above $15,000 or equivalent. ^he commercial banks are free to determine the margins on purchases and sales of foreign banknotes, but they do not charge commissions. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All merchandise trade is conducted in convert- ible currencies. All transactions under bilateral pay- ments agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pending the out- come of negotiations.2 Resident individual juridical persons are not permitted to open accounts with banks and financial institutions abroad without the prior written approval of the Bank of Albania. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident and nonresident natural and juridical persons are permitted to hold accounts in domestic and foreign currencies with commercial banks. Res- idents and nonresidents may freely receive pay- ments and make payments abroad for current transactions. Authorized banks must maintain 90 percent cover on the foreign deposits placed with them, of which 10 percent represents the re- serve requirement. Commercial banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. There are no restrictions on withdrawals of foreign exchange from foreign exchange accounts by residents or nonresidents. Interest rates paid on foreign currency accounts are determined by banks. Imports and Exports All state and private enterprises, individuals, and juridical persons are free to engage in foreign trade activities. The lists of products subject to export and import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Indus- try and Trade. Licenses are required to import haz- ardous materials and arms. At the end of 1994, four categories of export products were subject to licensing requirements. Applicants for export li- censes must pay a service fee of $5 for each license. 2At the end of 1994, Albania maintained bilateral payments agreements in nonconvertible currencies with Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and Viet Nam. Albania also maintained bilateral payments agreements in convertible currencies with Algeria, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Re- public, Egypt, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, Viet Nam, and some of the countries of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 7 There are no surrender requirements, but all pri- vate and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate their foreign exchange receipts to Albania. They are free to retain these proceeds in or outside the banking system or to convert them into leks. There are four customs duty rates ranging from zero (for raw materials, intermediate and invest- ment goods, and some foodstuffs) to 30 percent (for certain consumer goods) that are applied to both private and public sector imports. In addition, a surcharge of 5 percent, based on the c.i.f. value, is levied on all imports except wheat, flour, and in- vestment goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for current invisible transactions are free of restrictions. There is no restriction on trans- fers of dividends and profits. Proceeds from invisi- bles are subject to the same repatriation as those from merchandise exports. Capital With certain exceptions, capital transfers are sub- ject to the prior written approval of the Bank of Al- bania. The following capital transfers may be made freely: (1) inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents; (2) outward transfers representing re- corded capital inflows; (3) transfers of proceeds or withdrawal of nonresident deposits; (4) transfers undertaken in accordance with the law on foreign investment, Law No. 7764, November 1993, provid- ing for the free repatriation of capital liquidation proceeds; and (5) transfers of the proceeds of the liquidation of Albanian assets by an emigrant on departure from Albania. Foreign direct investment into Albania is free of registration or preapproval requirements for most sectors. All requests for es- tablishing joint ventures with government entities involving over $50,000 in foreign capital must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Similar re- quests from financial institutions are approved by the Bank of Albania. Profits of joint ventures may be subject to tax rates of up to 50 percent, depend- ing on the activity of the enterprise; profits are not subject to any tax during the first two years of oper- ation for long-term (at least ten-year) investment projects. Enterprises are eligible for reduced tax rates when they reinvest profits in Albania. Gold There are no restrictions on gold holdings. Pre- cious metal exports are prohibited by Council of Ministers (COM) Decree No. 135, March 29,1994. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control March 25. COM Decree No. 288 of July 1,1992 on the regulation of the foreign exchange market was abolished and replaced by Decree No. 127, which granted authority to the Bank of Albania to govern exchange market regulations. New regulations re- moving currency restrictions on current transac- tions were issued by the Bank of Albania on May 1, 1994. Imports and Exports March 25. The regulation that export proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of receipt was abolished. March 29. Export licensing requirements were re- duced to four product groups from eight product groups. September 22. The temporary export taxes of 25- 70 percent on fish and tobacco were abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles May 1. Limits on foreign exchange allowance for travel abroad were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Bank of Algeria (the central bank) in fixing sessions with the participa- tion of commercial banks. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On De- cember 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 42.8132 and DA 42.8280, re- spectively, per US$1. Foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. Under Regulation No. 91/07, residents may obtain from their commercial banks forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. Payment for future delivery of foreign exchange may be effected either at the date the contract is made, in which case the spot exchange rate applies, or at the time the foreign exchange is delivered, in which case a forward rate quoted by the Bank of Algeria applies. The Bank of Algeria quotes 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, 12-month, 2-year, and 3-year forward exchange rates for specified currencies (listed in footnote 1). In April 1994, the Bank of Algeria ceased to offer forward cover but will con- tinue to honor outstanding forward contracts. Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formulates exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority for a num- ber of exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. s Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fourniture) can be made in ei- ther the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clear- ing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident ac- counts to which payments are made by the Alge- rian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract; beyond this date, these accounts may not be used for purposes unrelated to the contracts. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in convertible dinars or internal nonresident ac- counts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened before January 1,1975 by nonresident natu- ral persons of foreign nationality have been re- leased for transfer abroad. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currency. Under Regu- lation No. 91/02, juridical and natural persons of foreign nationality may open accounts denomi- nated in the convertible currency of their choice. Such accounts may be credited with (1) banknotes and other means of payment denominated in for- eign currency; and (2) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited without restriction (1) to make transfers abroad, (2) to export through withdrawals of foreign banknotes, and (3) to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay in- terest and may not show a net debit position. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural per- son residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tu- nisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Mo- rocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Bank of Tunisia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) an amount equivalent to the hold- ings on October 20, 1963 of the person concerned; (2) the proceeds from sales of real estate by the ac- count holder, provided that the funds are paid di- rectly by a ministerial officer; (3) the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and (4) any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain pay- ments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by nat- ura land juridical Algerian nationals residing in Al- geria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (l)book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to- bank book transfers between accounts held by indi- viduals. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for pur- chases of convertible foreign currencies to be physi- cally exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, eco- nomic entities have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained propor- tion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Certain im- ports are prohibited, regardless of origin. All import licenses have been abolished. Any ju- ridical and natural persons licensed under the Com- mercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods that are not prohib- ited or restricted without any prior authorization. All these imports are subject to obligatory domicilia- tion at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with correspond- ing amounts in dinars valued at the official ex- change rate. Before import payments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign currency accounts at authorized intermediary banks may use them to pay for imports. Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import fi- nancing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. External borrowing may not exceed the import value. Instruction No. 20/94 of the Bank of Algeria stip- ulates that the commercial credits used to finance imports of capital goods valued at more than $500,000 must have at least a three-year maturity. Except as otherwise indicated by the Bank of Al- geria, down payments for import payments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of imports. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or minis- try is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect pay- ments before exchange and trade control formali- ties have been completed. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) business or official travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising ex- penses. For payments for which the approval au- thority has not been delegated, the central bank or the Ministry of Economy must authorize the grant- ing of exchange. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in October 1986. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance based on need. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALGERIA vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange that was freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an al- lowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency they de- clared upon entry. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Certain ex- ports are prohibited for social or cultural reasons re- gardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surren- dered. Exporters of other products may retain 50 percent of their export earnings in a foreign cur- rency account. Entities may use these funds for im- ports or other payments pertaining to their business or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency account. Exports other than hy- drocarbons benefit from certain incentive measures granted by the Government, including exemption from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat rate levy on the wage bill. Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be regis- tered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of collection. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the ba- sis of a contractual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. The petroleum company that holds mineral rights, however, has different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, and 50 percent of the proceeds must be surrendered. There are no restrictions on the importation of for- eign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travel- ers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 200 a person. Nonresident travelers are not per- mitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license. Foreign direct investment is freely permitted, ex- cept in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990 and Legislative Decree No. 93-12 on Investment Promotion provide guar- antees on foreign direct investments in accordance with international codes that have been ratified by Algeria. Repatriation in respect of the sale or liqui- dation proceeds from invested foreign capital is guaranteed. The law also stipulates that profit re- mittances on such investments will be permitted, provided that documentation requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remit- tances of profits and retransfers of capital are per- mitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Legislative Decree No. 93-12 pro- vides for various tax and other incentives for for- eign investment for periods of up to five years. Algerian banks offer three-year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value annually into a convertible currency at the official exchange rate. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16,1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la transformation de Tor et des autres m£taux pr£cieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 31. The exchange rate of the Algerian dinar was devalued by 7.3 percent to DA 25.9 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 11 April 10. The exchange rate of the Algerian dinar was devalued by 28.1 percent to DA 36 per US$1. In conjunction with the devaluation, the system of for- ward cover provided by the Bank of Algeria was abolished. October 1. The exchange rate of the Algerian dinar was devalued by 12.2 percent to DA 41 per US$1. Weekly fixing sessions organized by the Bank of Al- geria with the participation of the commercial banks began to be held. Imports and Import Payments than $100,000 was delegated to the commercial banks. In addition, the requirement to use own foreign exchange for certain imports was abolished except for private cars. Commercial banks were permitted to provide foreign exchange freely for all importers on the basis of their bona fide requests. Import fi- nancing and external borrowing were liberalized, but minimum maturity requirements were main- tained temporarily for imports of capital goods. August 24. The negative list of imports was fur- ther reduced. April 12. The comitead hoc as well as the cahier des charges were eliminated. All imports were freed, except for a small list of products for which the im- porters must meet criteria ensuring profession- alism, and a negative list of products whose importation is prohibited. The enforcement of the regulations concerning imports valued at more Exports and Export Proceeds April 22. All restrictions on exports were elimi- nated, with the exception of items of historical or archaeological significance. The surrender require- ment ratios applicable to all export receipts, except hydrocarbon and mineral exports, were unified and lowered to 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the New Kwanza. The official exchange rate is determined in foreign ex- change auctions conducted three times a week by the Banco National de Angola (BNA), the central bank. Commercial banks are permitted to partici- pate in these auctions, but are free to set their own exchange rates in transactions with customers. Ex- change rates for 17 other currencies1 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the curren- cies concerned on the Brussels, Frankfurt, London, New York, Paris, and Zurich markets. Two sets of exchange rates are published weekly by the BNA, one for transactions between the BNA and the commercial banks and the other for trans- actions between the commercial banks and eco- nomic agents. The BNA applies a margin of 0.25 percent to its buying and selling transactions with economic agents. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depend- ing on the currency. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Organic Law of the BNA and the Financial Institutions Law, promulgated on April 20,1991, es- tablished the BNA ahd the commercial banks as the financial institutions that are legally authorized to conduct exchange transactions with foreign parties. The BNA has delegated authority to banks to li- cense and execute permitted invisible foreign ex- change transactions. Commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers licensed by the BNA are authorized to deal in for- eign exchange at the floating and the parallel ex- change market rates. The BNA uses the floating rate in its dealings with financial institutions. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. the BNA's commercial department, the Banco de Poupanga e Cr£dito (BPC), and the Banco do Comercio e Indiistria (BCD, of which the latter two are commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange under the Organic Law of the BNA and the Financial Institutions Law. The BNA's commer- cial department was established to facilitate the transition from the centralized banking system to the two-tier banking system. Accordingly, the BNA serves both as the central bank and as a commercial bank. Financial institutions must deposit with the cen- tral bank all amounts required for payment of taxes and import duties made by foreign enterprises and all proceeds from exports by domestic enterprises, including those credited to accounts abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The BNA prescribes the currency to be used for imports, which depends upon the country with which the transactions are to be carried out. The currency is usually that of the exporting country or the U.S. dollar. Bilateral settlement arrangements, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. These arrangements use single accounts whose monthly balances can be used without restriction for transactions with third parties. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Individual resident juridical persons may main- tain demand and fixed-term foreign exchange ac- counts with Angolan financial institutions. These accounts are remunerated at current interest rates. Checkbooks may not be issued against these ac- counts. The opening of and transactions through these accounts are not subject to prior authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be credited only through delivery of foreign currency in cash, trav- eler's checks, or foreign payment orders, and for in- terest accrued; they may be debited only through conversion into domestic currency or issuance of any instrument normally accepted on the interna- tional financial market, in settlement of imports of goods and current invisibles or of capital export op- erations carried out by the depositor. Transfers be- tween accounts are forbidden. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 13 Nonresidents may hold accounts in new kwan- zas, subject to authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the sale of foreign means of payment and with de- posits of proceeds from the account holder's activi- ties in Angola; they may be debited only through the issuance of orders of withdrawal for payment of local expenditures or through purchase of foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may also hold foreign exchange ac- counts, subject to authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the importation of foreign means of pay- ment or the deposit of proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited only through the sale of foreign means of payment or repatriation of all or part of the existing credit balance. Former residents may also hold accounts in new kwanzas, but they may withdraw funds from these accounts only to cover expenses during their stay in Angola. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, according to a positive list with pre-established limits deter- mined under the import plan, and are also subject to the availability of foreign exchange, except for imports of spare parts, accessories or similar goods, medicines, equipment, and raw materials, up to a quarterly maximum of $50,000 (or its equivalent). Enterprises buying foreign exchange must submit the exporter's pro forma invoices (which may in- clude insurance and freight). For imports exceeding $10,000, enterprises must submit an import regis- tration bulletin within eight days of completion of the operation under penalty of being excluded from future foreign exchange auctions. Licenses are granted only to registered enter- prises of proven technical, commercial, and finan- cial capacity and are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation and restricted to imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To ob- tain a license, enterprises must present offers of three foreign suppliers to the sectoral ministries and the Ministry of Commerce. The approved offer may be considered for an import license applica- tion, which, in turn, must be approved by the same ministries. Import licenses specify the importer, supplier, intermediary, product (Brussels Nomen- clature Classification, volume, and unit price), ship- ping and insurance companies, cost, and method and currency of payment. Once the importation of merchandise is approved, the BNA issues the credit document, with a copy for the import license appli- cant, stating that, before shipment to Angola, the goods must be examined by the international agen- cies for compliance with international standards for merchandise transactions. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. If an import trans- action is not fully effected within this period, the original merchandise transaction is deemed to have become a capital transaction. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value is levied. Import li- censes are also required for statistical purposes even if foreign exchange is not requested. Imports of capital goods must be financed partly by me- dium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domes- tic air and sea transportation companies, and im- ports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted at the floating rate; for medical treatment abroad, up to $5,000 is provided through the Na- tional Health Board at the official rate. A maximum monthly allowance of $2,500 is granted to residents who spend up to 90 days abroad for educational, scientific, or cultural purposes. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and fi- nancially dependent on, residents in Angola, pro- vided that (1) they are minor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, they can demonstrate that they are students or are incapable of working; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, they can demonstrate they are incapable of working. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional for- eign exchange amount may be granted at the float- ing rate. Resident nationals who wish to travel abroad may, upon presentation of their passport and airline tickets, where applicable purchase foreign ex- change from financial institutions as follows: (1) children up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a per- son a trip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a trip to other countries; and (2) individuals over 16 years, up to $1,500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from fi- nancial institutions to cover their employees' travel expenses abroad on trips of up to 30 days, for busi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ANGOLA ness, service, or training, with the following daily limits: (1) president or equivalent, $350; (2) vice president or equivalent, $300; and (3) department director or equivalent, $200. If a person returns to Angola earlier than expected, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institution. All these transactions take place at the floating rate. The exportation of domestic currency is prohib- ited. When departing Angola, nonresidents visiting the country for purposes of tourism or business are permitted, upon presentation of the corresponding sales vouchers, to repurchase up to 50 percent of the foreign exchange they sold to institutions accred- ited to deal in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods are prohibited.2 Re- exports of goods other than capital goods and per- sonal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions apply to the exportation of products that are in short domestic supply. All other exports are subject to prior licensing. Proceeds from exports must be collected within 30 days of shipment. Oil exporters must surrender all proceeds to the BNA, while ex- porters of all other products may also sell their pro- ceeds to commercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents must be ap- proved by the BNA. The sectoral ministries super- vise the execution of contracts. All proceeds must be surrendered to the BNA within 30 days of receipt. There are no limits on the amount of foreign banknotes or traveler's checks in foreign exchange that a person may bring into the country, but any 2Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, os- trich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cotton, rice, pork, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and petroleum. amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon arrival. Residents are permitted to leave the country with more than $5,000 in for- eign exchange only if they present exchange pur- chase documents; nonresidents must present such documents when the amount exceeds $10,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of 1994 (Law No. 15/94 of September 23, 1994) prohibits invest- ment in strategic sectors.3 Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Dividends and capital may be repatriated upon liquidation with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inheritances, dowries, sav- ings from wages and salaries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold The importation and exportation of gold are a monopoly of the BNA. Residents are permitted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 25. An exchange rate system was intro- duced, under which the official exchange rate is de- termined in foreign exchange auctions conducted by the BNA. Commercial banks would be allowed to participate in the auctions and would be free to set their own exchange rates in transactions with their customers. 3Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, communi- cations, and transport infrastructure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in- tervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transac- tions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22,1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export li- censes are required for a range of products, particu- larly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Minis- try of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Indus- try, and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Car- ibbean dollars. ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. 15 Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained-in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms, especially in tourist-oriented industries or ex- port trade, whose receipts are primarily in foreign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchan- dise (whether from export-oriented or local produc- tion) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Certain other commodi- ties require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda fol- lows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permit- ted upon application and submission of documen- tary evidence. Imports exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis, generally under the Fiscal Incentives Act of 1975 and the Hotel In- centives Act. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Upon presentation of sup- porting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange, including CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and To- bago currency) for each trip outside the ECCB area. Foreign exchange allowances for education, family maintenance, medical treatment, and remittances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Profits on foreign direct invest- ment may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. for transfers, especially for charitable purposes, are usually granted. Exports and Export Proceeds Capital No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, approval from the Min- istry of Finance must be obtained. Levy exemptions There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Peso, the exter- nal value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1994, the middle rate of the peso in terms of the U.S. dollar was Arg$0.999 per US$1. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Swap transactions and forward ex- change operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Since Janu- ary 12,1995, the Central Bank of the Republic of Ar- gentina (BCRA) has been converting pesos into U.S. dollars, and U.S. dollars into pesos, at a rate of Arg$l to US$1. Deposits denominated in pesos and maintained by the financial institutions at the Cen- tral Bank to meet cash reserve requirements are au- tomatically converted into U.S. dollars. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14,1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions are carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose with no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign ex- change at market prices. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies; each type of institution is subject to separate regula- tions. Credit funds and mortgage savings and loan companies may also effect certain foreign exchange transactions, on the condition that they meet certain additional capital requirements. Prescription of Currency Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA), payments between Argentina and Bra- zil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are settled voluntar- ily through payment agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. All payments between Argen- tina and Bolivia and the Dominican Republic must be effected through the accounts specified in the agreements. Argentina has also signed similar agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Malay- sia, and the Russian Federation. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a vol- untary basis through the accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, with the exception of Bolivia, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obliga- tory. Transactions with other countries must be set- tled in freely usable currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or foreign exchange in the name of residents or non- residents who have met certain identification re- quirements that are aimed at, among other things, preventing money laundering. Accounts in foreign exchange must be denominated in convertible cur- rencies and may be credited only with cash or with remittances from abroad in the following curren- cies: U.S. dollars for current accounts, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and deutsche mark and other currencies that the BCRA explicitly authorizes at the request of financial institutions for deposits in savings and fixed-term accounts. Both resident and nonresident holders of demand or time foreign cur- rency accounts may use their credit balances freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. Use of checking accounts de- nominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions.1 Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies. Payments for imports may be freely set- tled by authorized financial entities. The Treaty of Asunci6n, signed in 1991, became effective in January 1995. It established the South- ern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) between Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay and im- plemented a 47 percent reduction in tariffs on goods traded among MERCOSUR countries, retroac- aSince January 12, 1995, the minimum cash requirements for deposits and other obligations in pesos must be covered in U.S. dollars. Financial institutions accepting savings and fixed-term deposits in foreign currencies must limit them to no more than six times the liabilities included in the computation of capital, and the resulting lending capacity must be applied mainly to fi- nancing productive activities and external trade. Any funds not used for these purposes may be placed in alternative invest- ments expressly allowed by law and by the BCRA (government securities, sight placements in the New York branch of the Banco de la Nati6n Argentina, etc.). 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ARGENTINA tive to June 30, 1991. Thereafter, tariff reductions were implemented until they were completed at the end of 1994; the tariff positions exempted from these reductions were also eliminated during this period. Tariffs were reduced at a rate of 7 percent every six months. At the end of 1994, a substantial portion of intra-MERCOSUR trade was conducted at a zero tariff rate and the nontariff barriers listed in the Schedule of the 1991 Asunci6n Treaty were also removed. In accordance with Decision No. 5/94 of the MER- COSUR Council of Ministers, the member countries may ARGENTINA 19 Capital Beneficiaries of loans in foreign currencies are not required to convert them into domestic currency in the exchange market. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Law No. 24.156 of Oc- tober 29,1992. Decree Law No. 1853 of September 1993 governs foreign investment, combining in one law the liber- alization measures contained in the Economic Emergency and State Reform Acts of 1989 and the Foreign Investment Law of 1993. This law allows foreign companies to invest in Argentina, without prior government approval, on an equal footing with domestic firms, thus effectively applying na- tional treatment to foreign investors. Foreign inves- tors are entitled to the same rights and subject to the same obligations as domestic investors, and may enter into any area of economic activity on their own, because no law or regulation forces them to be associated with local partners. There are no approvals or procedures required to effect foreign investment. Regardless of the amount or the area of economic activity in which they are made, foreign investments may be made without any prior approval. This principle applies even in cases where a foreign investment results in full for- eign ownership of a domestic company. In the banking and insurance sectors, where special statutes require all operators to apply for li- censes, foreign and domestic investors are guaran- teed access to such licenses on an equal footing. The principle of nondiscrimination applied to banking laws is extended to eliminate the traditional reciproc- ity requirement when considering a foreign bank application to do business in Argentina, which effec- tively gives foreign banks full legal equality with their domestic counterparts. Foreign investors are entitled to repatriate their capital and transfer abroad their realized earnings at any time, without any approval or authorization. Foreign investors may repatriate the full amount of their invested capital at any time, irrespective of the duration of investment. Their access to the foreign exchange market is also unrestricted. These rights assisting foreign investors have been further estab- lished under international law by means of over 30 Investment Promotion and Protection Agreements, including all countries where foreign investment usually originates, such as Canada, France, Ger- many, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Argentina is a member of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Center for the Settle- ment of Investment Disputes and maintains a valid and active agreement with the Overseas Private In- vestment Corporation. Swaps of bonds for eligible debts agreed to under the Brady Plan by Argentina and foreign creditor banks were completed in 1994. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial insti- tutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients as well as other precious metals whose market value is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and good delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible cur- rencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are sub- ject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are also subject to a sales tax. Institu- tions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good delivery gold against foreign banknotes. Authorized institutions may ex- port gold to entities abroad. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff preferences vis-a-vis MERCOSUR trading partners were increased to 82 percent from 75 percent. July 1. Tariff preferences vis-a-vis MERCOSUR trad- ing partners were increased to 89 percent from 82 percent. December 31. The 10 percent statistical tax was abolished. Capital April 28. Swaps of bonds for eligible debts agreed to under the Brady Plan by Argentina and foreign creditor banks were completed. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariffs vis-a-vis MERCOSUR trading partners were eliminated (except for a number of products), and a common external tariff (CET) ranging from zero to 20 percent (with 11 different positions) would apply to most products from non- MERCOSUR countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of May 1,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Armenia is the Dram,1 which is the sole legal tender. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is determined on the ba- sis of foreign exchange auctions held by the Yere- van Stock Exchange three times a week and auctions held by Givmri twice a month. Only banks may participate in the auctions (based on marginal pricing). Enterprises may buy and sell at the auc- tion only through banks. On April 28,1995, the av- erage noncash auction rate was dram 407.8 per US$1. The Central Bank of Armenia quotes official rates in terms of U.S. dollars three times a week on the basis of the average rate prevailing at the latest for- eign exchange auctions. This rate must be used for accounting valuation of all foreign exchange trans- actions of all economic agents. Exchange rates for other major currencies are calculated either on the basis of quotations on the Yerevan Stock Exchange where applicable, or solely on the basis of the quo- tation for the U.S. dollar in major interbank markets against the currencies concerned. Enterprises or any other physical or juridical per- sons (including state enterprises) are free to buy and sell foreign exchange without restriction through authorized institutions. Forward transactions, futures, and options in for- eign exchange are permitted. Administration of Control Central Bank of Armenia Decision No. 33 of May 17,1994 sets out the principles and procedures for foreign exchange and currency transactions be- tween residents and nonresidents. The Central Bank of Armenia has overall responsibility for reg- ulating financial relations between Armenia and other countries in close collaboration with the Min- istry of Finance. Banks are granted two types of foreign exchange licenses. A general license gives a bank authority to conduct any type of foreign exchange transaction, including those with nonresidents abroad, exclud- ing gold transactions, which are licensed separately. ^he dram became the sole legal tender with effect from March 1,1994. Banks with a general license may offer a full range of currency transactions. A second, more restricted form of activity, included in licenses to operate as a bank in Armenia, allows banks only to buy and sell foreign exchange, only on behalf of their clients. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of corre- spondent accounts maintained by the central banks of these countries but can also be made through other channels. Settlements with countries with which Armenia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Settlements with all other countries may be made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Under Central Bank Decision No. 30 of May 16, 1994, residents may only open, maintain, and use loan accounts and foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad. Regulations pertaining to the transfer to these accounts of Russian ruble balances held in Armenia have not yet been formulated. Res- idents may also open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Armenia. There are no limits on the amount of foreign cur- rency banknotes that can be purchased with drams from banks, and banknotes can be deposited in a foreign exchange account or used for transactions with nonresidents. Resident enterprises may main- tain and use foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with the authorization of the Central Bank of Armenia. The opening and use of domestic for- eign exchange accounts are not restricted, except that residents may not transfer these balances to other residents. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open and use foreign exchange accounts with li- censed domestic banks, provided that they are reg- 2At the end of 1994, Armenia maintained bilateral payments agreements with the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan and bilateral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, but the latter have become largely inoperative. 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 21 istered with the local authorities. Balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to li- censed domestic banks for drams. Legislation is be- ing drafted to allow nonresident juridical persons to open accounts in drams and use them for domes- tic transactions. Foreign governments and interna- tional institutions may open dram accounts with authorization from the Central Bank of Armenia. Imports and Exports Imports of a number of products are prohibited for public health, national security, and environ- mental reasons. A license from the Ministry of Agri- culture and the Ministry of Health is required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and chemical agents for plant protec- tion (pesticides). Imports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require spe- cial authorization from the Government. The Agreement on Creation of a Free Trade Zone, signed in April 1994, establishes the legal frame- work for the signing of free trade agreements be- tween Armenia and the other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Bilat- eral free trade agreements have been signed with the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Tajikistan, the Rus- sian Federation, and Ukraine (to date, only the agreement with the Russian Federation has been ratified), and customs tariffs are thus exempt only for products from the Russian Federation. Govern- ment Decree No. 39, passed on January 27,1995, es- tablished new tariff duties. This decree sets five rates for import duties, from zero, 5, 10, 30, and 50 percent; the rate for most imports is zero. There are no export duties. According to Government Decision No. 17 of Jan- uary 17, 1995, export licenses are required for three product groups: medicine, wild animals and plants, and textile products exported to the European Union (EU). In addition, special government per- mission is required for the export of nuclear tech- nology, nuclear waste, and related nonnuclear products having direct military applications. Mini- mum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and foreign produced goods thereof remain in force. By Government Decree No. 615, passed on December 10, 1994, all restrictions on barter trade have been removed. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 30 days of re- ceipt, and, as of January 1, 1995, 30 percent of the proceeds are required to be surrendered. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to ex- ports may be deducted from export proceeds prior to repatriation. As of April 1, 1995, export receipts are no longer subject to the surrender requirement. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident persons and enterprises may freely pur- chase foreign exchange or use foreign exchange bal- ances in their foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks to conduct invisible transactions. Verification procedures are being formulated by the Central Bank of Armenia. There are no limits on foreign exchange allowances for travel. Proceeds from cultural activities performed abroad are exempt from the repatriation require- ment. Proceeds from other invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to pro- ceeds from merchandise exports. The importation of foreign banknotes is not re- stricted. The exportation of foreign banknotes is also not restricted, although a declaration needs to be completed for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $500. Capital Foreign investors, including joint ventures, are not required to obtain authorization to undertake investment in Armenia. A foreign investment law passed on July 31, 1994 reflects current interna- tional practices and is liberal in its treatment of for- eign direct investment. Other inward and outward capital transfers require approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold A license is required to conduct trade in gold. There are no regulations currently in force govern- ing domestic trade in gold, and regulations on pur- chasing, selling, and holding gold and precious metals by banks have been prepared by the Central Bank of Armenia. The modalities of its implementa- tion are expected to enter into force in May 1995. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The dram became the sole legal tender in the Republic of Armenia. Administration of Control December 1. Banks with a general foreign ex- change license were required to offer at least a min- imum set of international transaction services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ARMENIA Capital July 31. A foreign investment law was passed. Changes During 1995 Imports and Exports January 1. The surrender requirement for export proceeds was reduced to 30 percent from 50 percent. January 10. The number of categories for which export licenses are required was reduced to three product groups from nine product groups. January 15. The new customs law reduced the number of tariff rates to five, with most imports be- ing zero rated. April 1. The surrender requirement for export proceeds was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 per US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On December 30,1994, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are set daily on the basis of U.S. dollar rates on the international exchange market. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by resi- dents to nonresidents, except when settled in Neth- erlands Antillean guilders. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for foreign exchange control purposes are ex- empted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency, except in the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as receipts through local banks and banks abroad, must be re- ported to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency and are also permitted to hold ac- counts in Aruban florins up to Af. 200,000. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts Residents are obligated to report in writing to the Central Bank the opening of foreign bank accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports other than eggs are not subject to any quantitative restrictions. The restriction on the im- portation of eggs, however, is administered liber- ally, depending on the domestic supply situation. Payments for imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Cen- tral Bank. Allowances for education remittances for family maintenance and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Residents may buy foreign exchange for travel purposes, up to a maxi- mum amount equivalent to Af. 400 for each day of travel, Af. 8,000 a trip, or Af. 15,000 a calendar year, without a special permit, and up to a maximum amount equivalent to Af. 2,500 without presenting travel documents. Transfers of profits and divi- dends require a license from the Central Bank. The exportation of Aruban banknotes is prohibited, and that of foreign currencies requires a license. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Unless specifi- cally exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days and credited to a foreign currency account with a local bank or with a foreign bank with the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. The following transactions require a license from the Central Bank: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic and officially listed secu- rities (a resident natural person must obtain a li- 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 ARUBA cense if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year); (2) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of do- mestic and foreign real estate (a resident natural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year); (3) proceeds from the liquida- tion of direct foreign investments; (4) loans received from, and extended to, nonresidents; and (5) other short- and long-term investments by residents abroad, or of nonresidents in Aruba (a resident nat- ural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year). Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The Reserve Bank of Australia publishes an indicative rate for the Aus- tralian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. On December 31, 1994, the indicative rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was $A 1.2873 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade- and nontrade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1965. Administration of Control The only restrictions on external payments and transfers are those introduced to give effect to UN Security Council Resolutions imposing sanctions against transfers to the governments and nationals of Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), Libya, and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. 1The Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nau ru, and Tuvalu. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality and may repatriate funds without restriction. Accounts may be denominated in for- eign currency, but purchases and sales of foreign currency in Australia must be handled through au- thorized dealers. Special requirements apply to in- terest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than tariff quotas, which ap- ply to cheese and curd. Australia is not a signatory of the Multifiber Arrangement. For some products, im- ports are allowed only if written authorization is ob- tained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weap- ons; particular chemicals; certain primary commodi- ties; some glazed ceramic ware; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obliga- tions arising from Australia's membership in inter- national commodity agreements. Almost all tariff rates have been subject to a tariff- reduction program in recent years. In 1991-92, the import-weighted average tariff rate (i.e., total duty paid divided by the f.o.b. value of all imports) was 6.5 percent. Under the tariff-reduction program an- nounced in 1988, tariff rates above 15 percent were gradually reduced to 15 percent by July 1992, and tariff rates higher than 10 percent but lower than 15 percent were phased down to 10 percent over the same period. Proportional reductions were made to those tariffs not expressed in ad valorem terms. In the tariff reduction plan announced in March 1991, most specific duty rates were converted to ad valo- rem rates as from July 1993. The March 1991 plan called for most tariffs to be reduced to a maximum level of 5 percent by July 19%. The exceptions in these two tariff-reduction programs are for passen- ger automobiles and the textile, clothing, and foot- wear sectors, where tariffs have been relatively high, especially in effective terms. Under the 1988 pro- gram, tariffs on passenger automobiles were reduced 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 AUSTRALIA to 35 percent by July 1992, and tariff quotas in the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors were elimi- nated since March 1993. The March 1991 program calls for further phased tariff reductions to 15 percent in the passenger motor vehicle industry and to a maximum of 25 percent in the textile, footwear, and clothing sectors by the year 2000. Australia's antidumping procedures were simpli- fied under the revised Customs Tariff (Antidump- ing) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link between dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Anti- dumping duties and undertakings will lapse auto- matically after five years, although domestic industries may renew the antidumping petition. In special circumstances, antidumping actions may be introduced retrospectively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or subsidized goods. The Anti- dumping Authority was established to advise the Government on these actions, although the Austra- lian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investigation of a complaint. In March 1991, the Government announced plans to strengthen the antidumping procedures, including accelerating the complaint process and extending the injury test to cover upstream agricultural indus- try. In December 1991, the Government announced it would reduce the time taken to process com- plaints and change the way in which dumping du- ties are levied. Australia's antidumping and countervailing legislation was amended on Decem- ber 6,1994, to come into effect on January 1,1995 in line with Uruguay Round changes to the GATT texts on antidumping and countervailing. Some of the major areas of change included (1) a require- ment for a set level of support by the Australian in- dustry before an investigation can be initiated; (2) the inclusion of prescribed methodologies to estab- lish dumping margins; and (3) a requirement that investigations will be terminated promptly where it is established that the margins of dumping (or level of subsidization) are de minimis or there are negligi- ble volumes of dumped (or subsidized) imports. A combination of company-specific and residual rates of duty to apply to exporters from subject countries were introduced. The legislation also provided de- tailed guidelines on what constitutes a countervail- able subsidy, giving preferential treatment to developing countries in the consideration of coun- tervailing duties. Specific criteria are listed for mak- ing a determination regarding the existence of threat of material injury. The legislation now re- quires greater levels of evidence from interested parties and notification by authorities. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), trade in goods across the Tasman be- came free from July 1, 1990 (five years ahead of schedule). Imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand were subject to a customs tariff until January 1, 1990. The provision for antidumping ac- tions against imports from New Zealand ceased after July 1,1990, and domestic trade practices legislation was amended at the same time to provide redress for unfair competition from New Zealand. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets on a nonreciprocal basis for most of the products exported by the member coun- tries. In the case of Papua New Guinea, although it obtains trade concessions from New Zealand under SPARTECA, its trade and commercial relations with Australia are covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea.3 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference for Developing Countries. Since 1986, a uniform preferential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has applied to all developing countries; if the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty free. From July 1,1993, the developing countries' preferences have been phased out for Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Taiwan Province of China, and margins applicable to certain industries, including textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and fruit preparations, tuna, and sugar have been removed for all but the least- developed countries and the South Pacific Island Territories. The preferential rates for these specified industries will be frozen until the General Tariff rate falls to the preference rate; the General Tariff rate will then apply. Both the 1991 and 1993 decisions came into effect on July 1,1993. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for certain transactions involving Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Libya, and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegov- ina. There is no restriction on the amount of Austra- 3The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand)-Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 27 lian or foreign currency that can be taken out of Australia, so long as the foreign currency was pur- chased from an authorized dealer. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out any foreign currency that they brought into Australia. Persons leaving Australia with cash (banknotes and coins) in any currency totaling $A 5,000 or more must complete a report for the Australian Transac- tion Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC); the re- port forms are available at ports or airports from the Australian customs authorities. ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for a progressive liberalization of the trade in services between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In ad- dition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's exclusions are the areas of telecommunications, banking (removed after the Martin report), airport services and avia- tion, coastal shipping, media, and postal services. The protocol was reviewed in 1990 and 1992 and will be reviewed again in 1994 with a view to liber- alizing currently exempted services. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the rel- atively unrestricted exportation of Australian prod- ucts. Bounties are paid to producers of a limited number of products, some of which may be exported. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are de- signed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obligations un- der international arrangements; restrict the exporta- tion of certain defense goods; regulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual civilian and military applications;4 and maintain ade- quate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulating the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to re- spond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. The Government has abolished or amended export controls on many mineral and petroleum products. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. The Government monitors trade in the bauxite, alumina, coal, and iron ore sectors and retains au- thority to withhold export approval for shipments at 4Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. prices not in line with market conditions. Export con- trols apply to uranium to ensure compliance with the Government's commercial and nonproliferation pol- icy obligations. Restrictions also apply to the exporta- tion of certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for the exportation of un- processed wood, including wood chips. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distortions, and promotion of further processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary re- straint agreements (VRAs) or similar restraint agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on exports of the meat of sheep and goats as well as high-quality "Hilton" beef to the European Union (EU), and bovine meat and steel products to the United States. The Australian Dairy Corpora- tion administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of con- trolled dairy products must be licensed. This sys- tem allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that ex- port prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the GATT for these products. Ex- ports of red meat and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to con- trol Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authori- ties that have export control powers are the Austra- lian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Aus- tralian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole ex- porter of Australian wheat. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Travelers may bring in any amount in Australian or foreign cur- rency, subject to completion of an AUSTRACT report for cash amounts totaling $A 5,000 (notes and coins) or more. (See section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be un- dertaken without formality. The only exceptions are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 AUSTRALIA foreign governments, their agencies, and interna- tional organizations. These entities are barred from issuing bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Treasury or Reserve Bank of the details of each borrowing af- ter its completion. Although there are no limits on the interest-bearing investments of international or- ganizations or of foreign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may deter- mine an amount up to which the investment of for- eign government monetary institutions (which also undertake commercial investments) will be re- garded as having been undertaken for official for- eign reserve management purposes. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Aus- tralian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank informed of their Australian dollar portfolios. Inter- est-bearing investments of a foreign government's official foreign reserves are exempt from taxation consistent with the principle of sovereign immu- nity. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Australian taxation. The Government recognizes the substantial con- tribution foreign investment makes to the develop- ment of Australia's industries and resources and has framed its policies so as to encourage direct in- vestment in line with the needs of the community. Under Australia's foreign investment policy, certain types of proposals by foreign investors for acquisi- tion or investment of more than $A 50 million are subject to full examination. These include (1) acquisitions of substantial interests in existing Australian businesses; and (2) proposals for the es- tablishment of new businesses. Proposals for in- vestments in the following areas are subject to examination irrespective of size: (1) investment in the media; (2) direct investment by foreign govern- ments or their agencies; and (3) acquisition of resi- dential real estate (unless exempt under the regulations). Foreign investors may acquire resi- dential real estate within a designated integrated tourist resort (ITR) without obtaining approval un- der the foreign investment guidelines. In most industry sectors, the Government ap- proves proposals to establish new businesses in- volving total investments of $A 10 million or more and those to acquire existing businesses with total assets valued at $A 5 million or more ($A 3 million or more if more than half of the assets of the busi- ness are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Certain restrictions apply to proposed acquisi- tions of real estate, but approval is normally granted to (1) acquisitions of real estate for development; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condi- tion that development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are "off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one development are sold to foreign interests); and (3) acquisitions of de- veloped nonresidential commercial real estate val- ued at over $A 5 million (acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate valued at less than $A 5 million do not require approval). In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special char- acteristics and circumstances that may arise in indi- vidual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign In- vestment Review Board, which acts as an indepen- dent advisor to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. In February 1992, the Government decided to permit foreign banks authorized under the Banking Act to operate as wholesale banks in the form of a branch (previously, foreign banks were authorized as incorporated subsidiaries). All foreign corpora- tions seeking authorization to conduct banking business in Australia must satisfy the Reserve Bank of their willingness and capacity to adhere to high standards of prudential management. Foreign bank branches are not required to maintain "endowed capital" in Australia and, consequently, the Reserve Bank does not impose any capital-based large expo- sure limits on these branches. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins. If the exportation or importation of coins (together with any notes) exceeds $A 5,000, it must be reported to AUSTRAC. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control April 4. Changes arising from the 1992 CER Re- view of Rule of Origin were put into effect. The technical and administrative changes from the CER agreement were at the same time applied to all other preference arrangements. Imports and Import Payments December 1. Antidumping and countervailing leg- islation was amended in line with changes that were made to the GATT as a result of the Uruguay Round. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of February 1,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Austria participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Neth- erlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Austria maintains the spot exchange rates between the schilling and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above and be- low the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs)2 and continues to keep the schilling's external value con- sistent against the deutsche mark. The arrangements imply that the Oester- reichische Nationalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other par- ticipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On January 9, 1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per Austrian Schilling Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 39.40890 214.17400 816.92700 243.58600 19.89710 726.06600 8.26800 10.32590 29.37670 158.84100 605.87700 190.65400 14.60820 537.74000 6.12520 7.65811 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert with the other EMS members to smooth out fluctuations in ex- Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1,1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened to ±15 percent from ±2.25 percent around the bilateral central ex- change rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 7.97000 and 5.910866. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 9.60338 and 7.1200. 29 change rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Oesterreichische National- bank does not intervene in the forward market or provide cover for the forward positions of commer- cial banks. On December 31, 1994, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 11.045 and S 11.145, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 1,1962. Administration of Control Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Cer- tain restrictions on payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the Government of Iraq are still in force. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Austria notified the Fund on July 7,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in re- spect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Restrictions are imposed on certain current payments and transfers to Libya in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993). Export and import licenses required under the Foreign Trade Act of 1984 and its amendments must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for ag- ricultural products. In instances where the customs authorities are authorized to issue import and ex- port licenses on behalf of these ministries, the li- censes are granted without delay or formal application (automatic licensing) when the goods clear customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made ei- ther in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 AUSTRIA Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, free schilling accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents and are not subject to re- strictions. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these ac- counts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in foreign currencies. These are subject to the same conditions as free schilling accounts. Imports and Import Payments As a member of the European Union, Austria ap- plies the Common Import Regimes. Payments for imports are not restricted. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving payments for invisi- bles without restriction. Residents traveling abroad for purposes of tourism may purchase foreign ex- change from authorized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresidents without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law must be obtained from the relevant min- istry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not re- quired. Export licenses are issued with due consid- eration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with- out restriction. Persons entering Austria may import unlimited Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian secu- rities and shares and participation by nonresidents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acqui- sition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Nonresidents are permitted to issue bonds on the domestic market. Foreign banks are not permitted to establish branches in Austria. In the auditing and legal pro- fession, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector, there are certain restrictions for investments by nonresidents and Austrian resi- dents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the European Economic Area. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Nonresidents' direct in- vestments in Austria and the purchases of Austrian or foreign equities do not require approval. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents, as well as to foreign banks and financial institutions. Residents may acquire participation rights in for- eign companies, associations, and other enterprises; earnings accrued from such investment may be freely used. Residents are permitted to acquit^'real estate abroad and to purchase from nonresidents se- curities denominated in Austrian and foreign cur- rencies without restriction. Residents are also permitted to open bank accounts and issue bonds abroad. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may trade with residents and nonresidents both at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unre- stricted and free of license. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 1. The European Economic Area (EEA) came into operation, extending the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital, and persons within the EU to Austria. March 1. Terms for Austria's accession to the EU were agreed. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control January 1. Austria became a member of the Euro- pean Union. Exchange Arrangements January 9. Austria joined the exchange rate mech- anism of the European Monetary System. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Azerbaijan is the Manat, the external value of which is determined in weekly auctions. Auctions of foreign exchange (noncash) are held weekly at the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange (BICEX). Participation in the auctions is restricted to the commercial banks that are licensed to deal in foreign exchange bidding on behalf of their customers.1 Since December 15,1994, the official exchange rate has been set on the basis of the outcome of the foreign exchange auctions. It is used for official transactions and as an accounting rate to value the foreign exchange assets of state- owned enterprises and banks and is applied to pro- ceeds surrendered from exports of services (50 per- cent of the proceeds). Authorized banks are free to set buying and selling rates for cash transactions. These rates are published weekly at the Interna- tional Bank. On January 1, 1995, the official ex- change rate was Manat 4,182 per US$1, and the exchange rate for cash transactions was Manat 4,300 per US$1 buying and Manat 4,360 per US$1 selling. No commission is assessed on purchases of foreign exchange by the International Bank, but a commis- sion of 2-3 percent is added for sales of foreign exchange. Differential buying rates arise from the operation of partial surrender requirements in connection with export proceeds, which are converted at highly appreciated exchange rates (see section on Imports and Exports, below).2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Azerbaijan National Bank Law, which gives the 1The convertible currencies commercial banks are authorized to deal in are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and U.S. dollars. An official exchange rate against the ECU is also posted. 2The system of surrender requirements at appreciated ex- change rates was abolished in March 1995. Exporters are re- quired to sell a maximum of 30 percent of their proceeds to the BICEX at auction exchange rates. ANB responsibility for regulating the exchange rate of the manat, conducting foreign currency opera- tions, and administering gold and convertible cur- rency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange; for regulating foreign exchange opera- tions, including implementing and monitoring com- pliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. Foreign trade is regulated under the Foreign Eco- nomic Activity Law by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations (MFER). The customs service law regulates the organization and operation of the cus- toms service. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade must register with the Ministry of Justice. Trade li- censes for petroleum, cotton, and other goods con- sidered strategic are issued by the MFER, and minimum export quotas are determined by the Ministry of Economy.3 Foreign private investment in joint ventures must be registered with the MFER and the Ministry of Fi- nance. Investment abroad by both Azeri nationals and companies is regulated by a state decree that limits the opening of foreign exchange accounts in foreign countries. A license must be obtained from the ANB as well as permission from the Cabinet of Ministers to open such accounts. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Residents of Azerbaijan may, once a transaction is approved, make and receive payments and trans- fers in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former U.S.S.R. other than the Russian Federation are effected through correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these states or through corre- spondent accounts of the respective central banks. Settlements with the Russian Federation are carried out mostly through the correspondent accounts of the respective central banks, although commercial banks are being licensed to open such accounts with banks in the Russian Federation. Azerbaijan maintains a bilateral payments arrangement with 3Under the state planning system, minimum export quotas were determined to ensure a minimum supply of foreign ex- change to the Unified Foreign Exchange Fund. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 AZERBAIJAN the Islamic Republic of Iran. The balance on ac- count earns interest at LIBOR plus 0.75 percent. At the end of three months, the outstanding balance is settled in convertible currencies within 25 days. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts at banks abroad subject to authorization by the ANB. Resi- dents may freely open and use foreign currency ac- counts maintained at licensed banks in Azerbaijan. No declaration of the origin of the foreign exchange is required for individuals. Individuals may trans- fer a limited amount of foreign exchange held in these accounts upon authorization to the holder's bank account abroad or may freely convert it into domestic currency. Enterprises may use the foreign exchange held in these accounts to pay for imports or convert it freely into domestic currency through the BICEX. Nonresident persons and enterprises are free to open foreign exchange accounts with licensed do- mestic banks. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manats. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manats and use them for domestic transactions in accordance with instruc- tions issued by the ANB. Foreign governments and international institutions may open and operate manat accounts with specific authorization from the ANB. Imports and Exports Payments for imports from the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may be made in any mutually agreeable cur- rency, including banknotes, or through the system of correspondent accounts operated by the ANB and the commercial banks. Payments for imports from the rest of the world are made in accordance with normal commercial practices. There are no re- strictions on the use of foreign exchange for import payments from enterprises' own accounts. There are no licensing requirements for imports. However, imports are largely controlled through bi- lateral trade agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union or through a system of contract registration. For imports from the rest of the world, volume and price are constrained by export licenses and con- tracts in the originating state. A few imports are banned for health, environmental, or security reasons. Duties are levied on imports in accordance with Resolution No. 252 of June 27, 1994 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Duty rates vary by product but do not distinguish between imports from the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union and those from other countries. A cus- toms fee of 0.15 percent is levied on imports from all sources. Resident persons and enterprises are required to repatriate proceeds from exports within three months and transfer them to a licensed bank in Az- erbaijan within ten days of receipt unless specifi- cally exempted by the Government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to eco- nomic activities may be deducted from the pro- ceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. After transfer to a licensed bank, export proceeds are dis- tributed among the exporter's foreign exchange ac- counts and the Unified Foreign Exchange Fund (UFEF)4 in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 77 of April 25,1994. Surrender requirements range from zero to 75 percent, with rates ranging from 50 percent to 70 percent for major export commodities such as energy products and cotton. The surrender require- ment ratios for exports to the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are one-half of the surrender requirements for exports to other countries. The values of foreign exchange subject to surrender requirements are cal- culated as follows: (1) exporters of goods, the prices of which are officially controlled, receive the do- mestic currency counterpart to surrendered foreign exchange earnings, calculated as the export volume times the domestic currency price of the commod- ity; (2) exporters of all other goods are compensated for surrendered foreign exchange at the cost price plus a 15 percent profit margin (enterprises are re- quired to submit information concerning their prices to the ANB); and (3) surrendered foreign ex- change originating from foreign exchange exports of services are valued at 50 percent of the official ex- change rate.5 Exports of strategic goods must be li- censed by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and they are subject to global quotas set for each product by the Ministry of Economy based on an estimation of production and domestic con- sumption. Sub-quotas are set for exports to the Bal- 4The UFEF, sometimes called the Republican Hard Currency Fund, aims at centralizing a part of the country's foreign ex- change earnings in order to finance essential imports and to ser- vice external debt. It includes a stabilization fund that the ANB can use to support the manat, subject to presidential approval. ^his system of surrender requirements at appreciated ex- change rates and the UFEF was abolished in March 1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 33 he countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, in accordance with bilateral agreements. The MFER issues licenses freely for ex- ports within quota limits, subject to verification of the contract. No licenses are required for other ex- ports, although contracts must be registered with the MFER. Some export bans exist, mainly on de- fense equipment. Export duties are assessed in accordance with Resolution No. 252 of June 27, 1994 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Duty rates vary by commodity but do not distinguish between exports destined for the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union and those for other coun- tries. However, higher rates are assessed on goods exported under barter trade agreements with Azer- baijan. Duties are payable in foreign exchange re- ceived from exports or in manats for goods traded under barter agreements. A customs fee of 0.15 percent is levied on exports to all destinations. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the availability of for- eign exchange for invisible payments by resident individuals, but documentation is required. The exportation of foreign banknotes is regu- lated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance, in conformity with customs regulations. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within three months and transferred to a licensed bank within ten days of receipt. The importation of foreign banknotes is regulated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance in conformity with customs regulations. Capital Inward private capital transfers are not restricted, and borrowing abroad by the Government is sub- ject to an annual ceiling determined by Parliament. Foreign exchange transactions of private investors are protected by the Protection of Foreign Invest- ment Law adopted on January 15,1992. Under this law, the treatment of foreign investment cannot be less favorable than that extended to domestic in- vestment, and foreign investment may receive pref- erential treatment. Foreign investment is protected from nationaliza- tion and expropriation unless state interests or force majeure is involved. If nationalization or expropria- tion occurs, adequate compensation is paid. Profits may be reinvested in local currency, held in Azer- baijan, or converted into foreign currency and transferred without restriction. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30 percent are entitled to a two-year holi- day on profit taxes; imports and exports of goods and services may be undertaken without licenses; and exporters of manufactured goods are allowed to retain 100 percent of their exchange earnings. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The manat became sole legal tender. May 24. The official exchange rate began to be set on the basis of the weighted average of commercial bank rates. June 27. All purchases and sales of foreign cur- rency outside the BICEX were prohibited (Decree No. 251 of the Cabinet of Ministers). Exports and Export Proceeds April 25. Regulations governing surrender re- quirements for exports to the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union were changed to one-half of those applicable to exports to other countries. The method of calcu- lating the values of foreign exchange subject to sur- render requirements was changed as follows: (1) exporters of goods whose prices are officially con- trolled would receive the domestic currency coun- terpart to surrendered foreign exchange earnings, calculated as the export volume times the domestic currency price of the commodity; (2) exporters of all other goods would be compensated for surren- dered foreign exchange at the cost price plus a 15 percent profit margin (enterprises are required to submit information concerning their prices to the ANB); and (3) surrendered foreign exchange origi- nating from foreign exchange exports of services would be valued at 50 percent of the official ex- change rate. December 15. The official exchange rate began to be set on the basis of the outcome of the foreign ex- change auctions held at the BICEX. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles May 2. Restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for travel abroad were eliminated by Res- olution No. 136 of the Cabinet of Ministers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5 percent is applied to all outward remittances. There is also a market in which investment cur- rency1 may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium above the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas when the resident is due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements without the Central Bank's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward with nonresi- dents without prior approval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks may deal forward among them- selves at market rates and must ensure when carry- ing out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no forward cover arrangements in the official sector. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 5,1973. 1Foreign currency that the Central Bank permits to be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permis- sion may exist for foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securi- ties; the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property; or direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of invest- ment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and the making of direct invest- ments outside The Bahamas. In 1994, total purchases amounted to B$251,061, and total sales to B$227,132. Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the au- thority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including payments for imports up to B$l 00,000; approval authority for cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Is- lands.2 Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Depart- ment of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export li- censes for crawfish and conch, and the police department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency** or in Bahamian dollars through an external account Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open external ac- counts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, autho- rized banks may also open external accounts in Ba- hamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for non- resident investors. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but in- come on registered investments may also be cred- ited to these accounts with the approval of the Central Bank. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.4 Accounts credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are des- 2Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Ba- hamian dollar. 4Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted tempo- rary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 35 ignated blocked accounts and are held mainly by emigrants. When the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000/ the excess is credited to a blocked account. Balances on blocked accounts are transfer- able through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the ap- proval of the Central Bank, in certain resident-held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohib- ited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. Prior approval from the Central Bank is re- quired to make payments for imports exceeding B$100,000, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 300 percent, depending on the type of goods, and stamp duties on imports vary from 2 percent to 22 percent. For all imports of agri- cultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers may make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, freight, ships' disbursements, and insur- ance premiums within specified limits. On applica- tion to the Central Bank, residents are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel equiv- alent to B$l,000 a person above the age of 18 years and B$500 a person up to the age of 18 years a trip; B$10,000 a person a year for business or professional travel; B$3,000 for educational travel; B$l,000 for travel for medical reasons. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Ba- hamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of the official amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide applications. For- eign exchange obtained for travel may not be re- tained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surren- dered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance is granted without a limit. Temporary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but if commitments outside The Baha- mas are more than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumu- lated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. A traveler may export Bahamian banknotes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not export the banknotes of any other country, ex- cept with specific approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for craw- fish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The pro- ceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the importation of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Ba- hamas require exchange control approval, and out- flows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents do not require ex- change control approval, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require au- thorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required for any action whereby nonresidents ac- quire control of or participate in an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individ- uals and companies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts abroad.6 Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. 6Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with re- gard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 THE BAHAMAS The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$l 00,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the to- tal amount of investment and will continue thereaf- ter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency bor- rowed on suitable terms subject to individual ap- proval from the Central Bank, by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary compa- nies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a non- resident. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit from the Foreign Investment Board, under the provisions of the In- ternational Landholding Act. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase property for residential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to ob- tain a Certificate of Registration from the Foreign Investment Board on completion of the transaction. For all investments with approved status, per- mission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are per- mitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign ex- change market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property a family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for per- sonal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the mainte- nance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with for- eign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances to non- resident beneficiaries under the wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, no- tably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of cer- tain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an external account, in funds eligible for credit to an external account, or in Bahamian dollars obtained by selling foreign currency in the official foreign ex- change market. Interest, dividends, and capital pay- ments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange, export pro- ceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities in The Bahamas and all swaps in foreign currency se- curities by Bahamian residents, wherever the swap takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Ster- ling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the Cen- tral Bank by December 31,1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered se- curities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Gen- erally, they may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take their house- 7Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securi- ties as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 37 hold and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the offi- cial exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time. Once a person is redesignated a nonresident, income accru- ing from assets remaining in The Bahamas is remit- table at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks must ob- tain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain per- mission to pay interest on, and to repay the princi- pal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is con- ditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresi- dents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not allowed to raise working capital in Ba- hamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency borrowing is determined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is con- trolled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from resi- dents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign cur- rency, and foreign currency loans are normally per- mitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the ap- proval of the Central Bank, meet their current in- dustrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a li- cense but are subject to an import duty of 35 percent. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to cus- toms is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.46190 per SDR1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of ± 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has main- tained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency; since Decem- ber 1980, the exchange rate has remained un- changed at BD 1 per US$2.6596. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has re- mained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates to banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. The BMA does not deal with the public. On December 31, 1994, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are au- thorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mil (special rates of commission apply for transac- tions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other cur- rencies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rates against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of the banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 20,1973. Administration of Control The BMA is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Com- merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Im- ports of cultured pearls are prohibited. In practice, rice is imported mainly by the Bahrain Import- Export Company. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities, but the rate is 20 percent on vehicles, 50 percent on tobacco, and 125 percent on alcoholic beverages. Mandatory government procurements give prefer- ence to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified mar- gins of the prices of imported substitutes (10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Foreign exchange for payments in re- spect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, all products may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN 39 made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in do- mestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or re- ceived from Israel. Profits from foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, except that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents, although transac- tions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2, 1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange be- gan on June 17,1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jew- elry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain approval from the BMA before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture. Such busi- nesses are subject to a minimum deposit require- ment equivalent, in the case of gold, to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the cur- rencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1994, Bangladesh Bank's (spot) mid- dle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 40.25 per US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for au- thorized dealers were Tk40.15 and Tk 40.55, re- spectively, per US$1. Bangladesh Bank deals with authorized domestic banks only in U.S. dollars and the currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU).1 Authorized banks are free to set their own buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for other currencies based on cross rates in international markets. Forward contracts are available from authorized banks, covering periods of up to six months for ex- port proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collec- tion of foreign shipping companies and airlines. For the currencies of ACU member countries, the autho- rized banks may, in turn, take forward cover from Bangladesh Bank against transactions entered into through forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks are permitted to retain work- ing balances with their foreign correspondents. Currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted when they are against underlying ap- proved commercial transactions. Bangladesh formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 11,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The commercial banks and specialized financial institu- tions are issued licenses as authorized dealers (au- thorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Or- der (IPO). Registered importers can make their im- ports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are con- ducted through state-owned agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies, and in some cases through nonresident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries are required to be effected through the ACU in terms of the Asian monetary unit (AMU).2 There are commodity exchange agreements with a few countries.3 Settlements for trade under these agreements are effected through special noncon- vertible U.S. dollar accounts.4 Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bang- ladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country con- cerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Ex- port proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. All settlements with Israel, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro) are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated nonresident accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.5 Nonresident foreign cur- 2The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for re- cording transactions through the ACU. 3Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. Bangladesh is committed to settling promptly any outstanding liability on these accounts. ^he accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 41 rency accounts may be opened by authorized deal- ers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank for Bangladeshi nationals and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these ac- counts may be made in the account holder's absence by authorized dealers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Certain other debits and credits may be made without prior approval from Bang- ladesh Bank but are subject to ex post reporting. Convertible taka accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit organizations (including charitable organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies en- gaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their ex- patriate employees, UN organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and for- eign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status) are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible cur- rencies. Transfers between convertible taka ac- counts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign air- line and shipping companies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned can be disbursed only in local currency. Foreign currency accounts of Bangladeshi nationals working abroad. Bangladeshi nationals and persons of Bangladeshi origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts de- nominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bang- ladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding $5,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme (WES); and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency de- posit accounts. The accounts may be debited with- out restriction, but debits for the following purposes must be reported to Bangladesh Bank: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other for- eign currency accounts opened under the WES; (3) payments for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures up to prescribed limits abroad for business or private purposes. Nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Bang- ladeshi nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other financial institutions, in- cluding institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladeshi missions and government institutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited in ini- tial minimum amounts of $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in convertible cur- rencies and transfers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladeshi na- tionals abroad. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bang- ladeshi nationals abroad. The balances in the ac- counts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. Resident foreign currency deposit (RFCD) accounts. Resident Bangladeshis, at the time of their return from travel abroad, may bring in any amount of for- eign currency with a declaration and up to $5,000 or the equivalent without a declaration and may maintain an RFCD account with the foreign ex- change brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commis- sions arising from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling. Exporters and lo- cal joint-venture firms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplo- matic missions in Bangladesh, their expatriates, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BANGLADESH Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by a two-year IPO announced by the Government. The controlled list contains 107 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes. Items not specified in the control list of the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. Imports from Israel are prohibited. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of De- fense) are required to obtain letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Con- troller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without an import license. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or pay- ments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and imports trans- ported on flag vessels of Israel are prohibited. Goods must be shipped within 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts and 9 months in the case of all other items. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Rec- ognized export-oriented ready-made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating un- der the bonded warehouse system may effect im- ports of their raw and packing materials by opening back-to-back letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis of up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, sub- ject to authorization from Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The enti- tlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Authorized dealers may establish letters of credit on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of Bang- ladesh Bank, subject to the following conditions: (1) cost of goods, cost of freight, and insurance will be accommodated within the amount recorded in the LCAF issued in favor of the importer; (2) cost of freight will be paid locally out of the LCAF value in local currency; and (3) other directives of the IPO will be duly complied with. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Ad- vance payments for imports require approval from Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for family main- tenance and education abroad are accepted upon verification of their bona fide nature. For medical treatment, up to $10,000 can be obtained without prior approval; for larger amounts, the total amount required is granted, subject to the approval of Bangladesh Bank. The indicative allowance for personal travel by resident Bangladeshi nationals to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, My- anmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $2,500 a year; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $500 a person a year. Larger amounts are available upon verification by Bangladesh Bank of the bona fide nature of the request. Business travelers may obtain up to $6,000 without prior au- thorization and more upon verification of bona fides. Exporters maintaining retention accounts may use the funds on these accounts to cover travel expenses abroad without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh may freely remit up to 50 percent of net salary in terms of service contracts approved by the Government; the entire amount of their leave sala- ries and savings can also be remitted freely No prior permission is required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6 percent of sales; training and consultancy fees of up to 1 per- cent of sales; and fees for undergraduate, postgrad- uate, and some professional courses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 43 Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they brought in and declared on entry or up to $5,000 or the equivalent brought in without declaration. They may also, without obtaining the approval of Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into con- vertible foreign currencies at the time of their de- parture. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted. A Bang- ladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 500 in domestic currency; otherwise, the exportation of Bangladeshi currency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit divi- dends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank on receipt of applica- tions from the companies concerned; applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolution declaring dividends out of profit derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax liabilities are covered. Authorized dealers may remit profits of foreign firms, banks, in- surance companies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh to their head office on re- ceipt of applications supported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment unless otherwise allowed by Bangladesh Bank. Exporters are permitted to retain 5 percent of products with a low value added and 15 percent of other products of the proceeds from exports; they may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad, participa- tion in trade fairs and seminars, and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. They may also be used to set up offices abroad without prior permission from Bangladesh Bank. Joint ventures, other than in the garment indus- try, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and place the remaining 30 percent in a bank account in domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5 percent of the proceeds and use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladeshi na- tionals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically ex- empted by Bangladesh Bank, all Bangladeshi na- tionals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an autho- rized dealer within one month of the date of acqui- sition. However, returning residents may keep, on hand or in a foreign currency account opened in their name, up to $5,000 without declaration. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to sur- render within one rtionth of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or ser- vices rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign ex- change held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in em- bassies and missions of foreign countries in Bang- ladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The importation of Bangladeshi currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in up to $5,000 without decla- ration and up to any amount without limit, pro- vided the amount brought in is declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted for resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers other than portfolio investment and direct investment in the industrial sector also require approval. Movable and immov- able assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh must be de- clared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshi nationals. However, Bangladeshi residents may continue to maintain foreign currency accounts opened during their stay abroad. There is no restric- tion on the importation of securities into Bang- ladesh. The issuing and transfer of shares and securities in favor of nonresidents against foreign investment or inward remittance are allowed with- out the prior permission of Bangladesh Bank. The transfer of Bangladeshi shares and securities from one nonresident holder to another nonresident holder also does not require prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident persons and institu- tions, including nonresident Bangladeshis, may buy Bangladeshi shares and securities through stock exchanges in Bangladesh against freely con- vertible foreign currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Proceeds from sales ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BANGLADESH including capital gains and dividends earned on the shares or securities bought in this manner may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Private sector industrial units in Bangladesh may borrow funds from abroad without the ap- proval of the Board of Investment if the interest rate does not exceed 4 percent above the LIBOR, the re- payment period is not less than seven years, and the down payment is not more than 10 percent; in- dustrial units in the export promotion zones, in- cluding foreign-owned and joint ventures, may obtain short-term foreign loans without prior ap- proval. Local currency loans to enterprises con- trolled by foreigners or residents do not require Bangladesh Bank approval. Lending by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas or collat- eral outside Bangladesh requires approval from Bangladesh Bank. Authorized dealers may grant, without reference to Bangladesh Bank and accord- ing to banking practice, loans without a specific limit in domestic currency to foreign-owned manu- facturing companies located in Bangladesh. Autho- rized dealers may also approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for exporta- tion from Bangladesh to companies controlled by persons residing outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresi- dents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign as- sets other than small working balances. When their work in Bangladesh is finished, expa- triate workers may transfer their savings abroad, provided that their salaries and benefits were ini- tially certified by the Board of Investment. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entre- preneurs. The act provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. With the exception of a few reserved sectors, private foreign investment is freely allowed. There is no ceiling on private investment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on the location. There is no upper limit on the foreign equity portion of an industrial in- vestment, and there is no prior approval require- ment for investments, which should, however, be registered with the Investment Board. Nonresidents must also obtain the permission of Bangladesh Bank to continue to operate or to establish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the purpose of trading or for commercial activities. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver are prohibited without special permission. However, adult female passengers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Exports of gold jewelry are also allowed under the jewelry Ex- port Scheme. There are no restrictions on the inter- nal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 11. Bangladesh accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Articles of Agreement. Payments for Invisibles March 28. Business travelers were permitted to obtain foreign exchange in excess of $6,000 upon providing verification of the bona fide nature of travel. March 28. Applications for foreign exchange for family maintenance abroad would be approved upon verification that the need was bona fide. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, re- spectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted on the ba- sis of their cross-rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125 percent buying and 1.75 percent selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 1.8125 percent selling against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank of Barbados cur- rently sells currencies of only three Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries;1 these are the Guyana dollar, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago dol- lar and the Jamaica dollar now float against the U.S. dollar, and the Central Bank fixes daily selling rates based on rates supplied by the monetary authori- ties of these countries. These rates are applicable only to government transactions. All selling rates fixed by the Central Bank in respect of CARICOM currencies include a commission of 0.125 percent. The Central Bank purchases Eastern Caribbean dol- lar notes only. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate be- tween each pair of currencies determined on the ba- sis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that the commercial banks may charge their customers for CARICOM cur- rencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allowances, educa- tion, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500, and certain other items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central Govern- lrThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ex- change loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Commercial banks are allowed to ob- tain forward cover in the international markets. The Central Bank and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Barbados formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 3,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve nor- mal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system stipu- lates that foreign exchange should normally be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Business Development. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign cur- rency,2 or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica and Trinidad and To- bago, must be made either through external ac- counts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that com- mercial banks may issue U.S. dollar traveler's checks to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from September 21, 1991 and April 13, 1993, the Bank of Jamaica and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago abolished exchange control in Jamaica and Trinidad and To- bago, respectively; as a result, settlements with resi- dents of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago are made in U.S. dollars. 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bar- bados dollar. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BARBADOS Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies foreign currency accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency ac- counts under the conditions of approval established at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without consulting the Central Bank. These accounts, maintained in Barbados dol- lars, may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other exter- nal accounts, with bank interest (payable on exter- nal accounts or blocked accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payment covered by delegated authority to authorized deal- ers. Other debits and any overdrafts require indi- vidual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Bal- ances in blocked accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports require individual licenses. However, not all goods that are subject to import li- censing are subject to quantitative restrictions or import surcharges. Some items on the import- licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while others are subject to temporary re- strictions (particularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Individ- ual licenses are also required for imports of com- modities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the reg- ulation of trade between Barbados and other CARI- COM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent, the same range as the Common External Tariff (CET) of the CARICOM re- gion.3 Import surcharges in the form of stamp du- ties, consumption taxes, and luxury taxes amount to a total of up to 203 percent. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may re- lease foreign currency up to the equivalent of BDS$20,000 (c.i.f.) for advance payments for im- ports into Barbados. Other advance payments re- quire the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is sup- ported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain personal and sundry payments. These include foreign travel, for which up to BDS$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel inside or outside the CARICOM area; BDS$500 a day for business travel, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year; expenses for education abroad, BDS$20,000 a person a year; remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$1,000 a donor a year; sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines, BDS$5,000 a person a year; remittances for medical purposes, up to BDS$50,000 a year; and income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance pre- miums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no un- authorized transfer of capital appears to be in- volved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Any person traveling to a destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDSS500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. 3The maximum tariff is expected to be lowered to 30 percent on April 1,1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 47 Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food prod- ucts, sewing machines, portland cement, and petro- leum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that for- eign exchange proceeds are surrendered to autho- rized dealers within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents returning to Barbados are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an autho- rized dealer. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct in- vestments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and real estate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized de- pository in Barbados, and earnings on these securi- ties must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control ap- proval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are re- stricted to BDS$30,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$1,000 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$30,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare the assets they hold in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is sub- mitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged, and the original investment was registered with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of se- curities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the re- alization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was fi- nanced from foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such in- vestments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repa- triated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of re- turn on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may as- sume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized deal- ers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. A 6 percent tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$50, BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are pri- vate persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control ap- proval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 BARBADOS by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Li- censes to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Business Development; no license is required to export gold, but exchange con- trol permission is required to do so. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control March 17. Barbados lifted economic sanctions against South Africa. Imports and Import Payments February 10. Quantitative restrictions and licenses were eliminated on a number of items. A surcharge of 100 percent was imposed on imported products for which locally produced goods can be substituted. October 1. All taxes on inputs used in the agricul- tural and manufacturing sectors were eliminated. Payments for Invisibles April 5. Authorized dealers were allowed to re- lease foreign exchange as follows: (1) for remit- tances for cash gift purposes, BDS$1,000 a donor a year; (2) for advertising, legal fees, commissions, dividends, subscriptions, film processing, insur- ance payments, and personal loan payments, up to BDS$5,000; (3) for advance payments for imports into Barbados, up to BDS$50,000 c.i.f. against speci- fied documentary evidence; (4) for medical treat- ment outside Barbados, up to BDS$50,000 against specified documentary evidence; and (5) foreign ex- change for foreign travels as follows (i) from Barba- dos to other countries, at the rate of BDS$5,000 a person a calendar year; (ii) business travel from Barbados to other countries, at the rate of BDS$500 a day, up to a maximum of BDS$40,000 a person a calendar year. Capital April 5. The annual allowance allowed for remit- tances under a legacy was raised to BDS$30,000 a person from BDS$20,000. April 25. (I) The annual allowance for Barbadian national emigrants was increased to BDS$30,000 a person, or family unit from BDS$20,000, and (2) the amount allowed for excess capital gains was raised to BDS$30,000 a year from BDS$24,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangements The currency of Belarus is the Rubel.1 Restric- tions on conversion of noncash rubels into cash (and vice versa) have been abolished effective De- cember 31,1994. This has eliminated the differentia- tion that existed between cash and noncash rubels against foreign currencies. The exchange rates of the rubel against the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, the Russian ruble, and the Ukrainian karbovanets are established twice weekly, at the Minsk Currency Exchange, with participation of the commercial banks licensed to conduct foreign currency opera- tions and the National Bank of Belarus (NBB). On December 31, 1994, the market exchange rate was Rbl 9,680 per US$1. The official exchange rates are set on the basis of the auction rate and are used for accounting pur- poses, for all foreign exchange transactions for the government, for transactions related to exports and imports, and for most current transfers and capital account transactions. By resolution of the Board of the NBB of October 5,1994, restrictions on conducting cash transactions on the foreign currency exchange have been lifted. By NBB Board Resolution of November 23, 1994, commercial banks with the required foreign ex- change license are permitted to trade at the cur- rency auction for their own account. Foreign investors must pay a 15 percent tax in convertible currency on income received as a result of the profit remittances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk in the offi- cial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Parliament is responsible for legislating ex- change control regulations and the NBB for adminis- tering them. The country's official foreign exchange reserves are controlled by the Council of Ministers and the NBB. Local governments control the local foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange for offi- cial import payments is administratively allocated through state and local government foreign ex- 1 Prior to August 20,1994, the Russian ruble also served as le- gal tender in Belarus. Effective August 20, 1994, the rubel re- placed the Belarussian ruble and became the sole legal tender. The conversion from the Belarussian ruble to the rubel took place at the rate of 10 Belarussian rubles per Rbl 1. change funds. Foreign exchange regulations to vest the NBB with greater authority to control official for- eign exchange reserves and to implement exchange rate policy are under preparation. Only banks may obtain licenses to engage in for- eign exchange transactions. Enterprises may obtain permission to open foreign exchange offices, sell goods, and render services for freely convertible currency within Belarus. Prescription of Currency Payments with countries with which Belarus has bilateral payments agreements are effected in the currencies specified in these agreements and in ac- cordance with their regulations.2 The agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union provide for set- tlement through bilateral clearing accounts held with central banks or authorized commercial banks. Settlement is to take place in convertible currencies, national currencies, or rubels; a number of countries of the former Soviet Union have signed an agree- ment (in October 1992) that they will use only the ruble in nonbarter transactions among themselves. Foreign trade payments outside this sphere are made in convertible currency. A significant share of trade is conducted in the framework of barter agree- ments. An attempt is being made to balance the trade with a cash trading partner, but if an imbal- ance emerges, it is settled, in principle, with deliver- ies of goods or in convertible currency. Since September 9,1992, barter trade of certain goods has required approval from the Commission of the Council of Ministers on the Issuance of Authoriza- tion to Engage in Commodity-Exchange Operations. Payments in foreign currency for goods and ser- vices (including wage payments) transactions among residents are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Without declaring the sources of their foreign ex- change, residents may open foreign currency ac- 2At the end of 1994, Belarus maintained bilateral trade and/or payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Finland, Hungary, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Slovenia, and Viet Nam. Bilateral clearing accounts have been established with all of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 BELARUS counts at commercial banks in Belarus authorized to handle foreign exchange (authorized banks). Residents may maintain bank accounts abroad only with the permission of the NBB. Foreign exchange received by resident juridical persons as a result of foreign economic activities must be repatriated to accounts of authorized banks in Belarus, unless oth- erwise authorized by the NBB. Nonresident juridical persons may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad, proceeds from sales of goods and ser- vices in the ruble area to residents and nonresi- dents, debt-service payments, interest earned on balances in the accounts, funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus, and earnings from investments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. These accounts may be debited for pur- chases of goods and services and for investments in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these ac- counts may be freely repatriated or exchanged for Belarussian rubels at the unified exchange rate through the authorized banks. Nonresident juridical persons may also open two types of accounts in the official currency of Belarus at authorized commercial banks. The first type, "L" Accounts, may be credited with the rubel counter- part of foreign exchange sold to the NBB or au- thorized banks; dividends from foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures; returns on securities; and from sales of such securities within Belarus. Funds from these accounts are freely usable in the ruble area and may be converted into foreign cur- rency at the unified exchange rate. The second type, "N" Accounts, may be funded by proceeds from the sale of goods produced in Belarus or received from residents. Balances in these accounts may be used only for business travel expenses; to purchase in- puts used for production of goods for export from Belarus; to purchase foreign exchange at the free ex- change rate at auctions (up to the limit of nonresi- dents' initial investment plus proceeds from sales of their output in Belarus); for payment of wages; and for investment purposes according to the proce- dures established by legislation. Imports and Exports Trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is con- ducted (1) under intergovernmental agreements; (2) through intermediation by former ministries or other agencies involved in resource distribution; (3) through enterprise deals; and (4) through com- modity exchanges. The bilateral trade agreements Belarus maintains with other countries include an appendix that spec- ifies in volume terms the amounts of about 150 products to be delivered during the period covered by the agreement. The signatory governments guar- antee that the specified volumes will be provided to the partner country. In most cases, the guarantee takes the form of state orders if corresponding state orders are in effect in the partner country.3 Defense- related goods are excluded from trade agreements. Trade in these products that exceeds the volume specified in the appendices and trade in products not included in the appendices of the trade agreements are mainly conducted as follows. The ministries, agencies, or self-financing wholesale trade organiza- tions involved in controlling resource distribution periodically collect information on the demand and supply conditions regarding the products that fall in their respective areas of responsibility. They submit this information to their counterparts in the other countries to match with their lists. When trade takes place, the individual enterprises and organizations negotiate the terms of delivery. Fifty percent of proceeds from exports in convert- ible currencies are subject to surrender require- ments. Nonconvertible currency proceeds must be repatriated and deposited in special accounts with Belarussian banks and used for payments of im- ports. If deposits are not used within 20 days, they must be sold through auctions held by the NBB. By NBB Board Resolution of October 5, 1994, the 100 percent surrender requirement for export earn- ings received in Russian rubles has been lowered to 50 percent. Also, by the same resolution, enterprises and individuals have been permitted to open bank accounts in Russian rubles. Resident natural and juridical persons must ob- tain a license to engage in foreign economic activi- ties (licenses are issued by the Committee on Foreign Economic Relations). With the exception of goods on a short negative list (comprising mainly arms and drugs), these licensed agents may trade in any product. Residents do not need a license or approval from the NBB to conduct foreign exchange operations re- lated to trade, except for (1) down payments for im- ports or services exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent that represent more than 30 percent of the value of the goods or services imported; Enterprises that produce for state orders have priority access to products imported under trade agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 51 (2) import payments or export receipts not effected within 180 days of the date of shipment;4 and (3) interest payments to nonresidents on returned down payments when an original contract is not fulfilled. Licenses or approvals for these exceptions are granted by the NBB on a case-by-case basis. Imports of the following products require a li- cense: medicines, herbicides, industrial waste, movie films, and imports conducted in the framework of intergovernmental trade agreements. By Resolution of the Council of Ministers of December 2, 1994, all export taxes, export licenses, and quotas have been abolished, with the exception of those mandated by international and bilateral commitments, including the customs union arrangement with the Russian Federation. A new import tax structure was introduced on October 6, 1993 with Resolution No. 672 of the Council of Ministers. Taxes are levied on products traded under barter arrangements and on a cash ba- sis. The rates range from 10 percent to 90 percent. The highest rate is applicable to some old automo- biles, and the 80 percent rate is charged on whiskey, gin, and some other alcoholic beverages. Unproc- essed leather and intermediate leather products are taxed at 30 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident individuals may purchase annually for- eign exchange for tourist travel up to an amount equivalent to 25 times the minimum wage at the free market exchange rate; for travel to the Baltic coun- tries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, the limit is 50 times the minimum wage. Larger amounts may be taken out with cus- toms declaration proof that they were brought into Belarus or with a certificate from an authorized bank that they were exchanged legally. Purchases of for- eign exchange for education, medical treatment, family maintenance, repatriation of salaries and wages, payments of insurance premiums, profit re- mittances, and purchases exceeding $10,000 require approval from the NBB. Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in joint-venture en- terprises may be remitted abroad without restriction. Post-1992 Russian banknotes up to Rub 500 may be taken abroad or brought into the country when traveling to the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union; a simi- lar restriction applies to the importation and expor- tation of rubel banknotes, for which the limit is Rbl 100,000 for travel to the Baltic countries and other countries. Residents of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may pay for air and train tickets as well as hotel expenses in Russian rubles; nonresidents may be required to pay for these expenses in convertible currency. Capital The properties owned by foreign investors in Be- larus are protected from expropriation.5 Foreign in- vestors are guaranteed full freedom to repatriate their initial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Repatriation of profits is subject to a tax of 15 percent payable in convertible currency. Foreign investment must be registered with the Committee on Foreign Economic Relations and, in the case of financial institutions, also at the NBB. At the time of registration, the enterprise obtains a license to en- gage in activities in a particular area of specializa- tion and may not pursue other activities. The proportion of equity capital share by nonresidents in direct investments is not restricted, except in the financial sector, where it cannot exceed 50 percent. Joint-venture enterprises are free to set their own product prices. They may participate in foreign ex- change auctions and commodity exchange transac- tions through authorized banks. Nonresidents may take part in auctions of state property with their own funds. However, special coefficients that raise the price of state property for nonresidents are set by the Committee of State Property. Other coefficients are set by the Council of Ministers, or their local agencies, and the Ministry of Finance and are announced to participants before auctions take place. Enterprises with more than 30 percent foreign capital ownership are permitted to export a certain proportion of their output and import inputs neces- sary for their production without restriction. These enterprises are exempted from the profit tax for three years from the first year the enterprise reports a profit. If the enterprise is deemed to be essential for the economy of Belarus by the Council of Minis- ters, the profit tax rate may be reduced by 50 percent for an additional three-year period. External borrowing by residents must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Finance, and the opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the NBB. his exception also applies to cosignatory agreements, barter and compensatory deals, and re-exports. ^The law on Foreign Investment of the Supreme Soviet (dated November 14, 1991) guarantees that terms offered to foreign in- vestors would remain unchanged for at least five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 BELARUS Gold A license is required for the exportation of gold, which is on the short list of products (together with arms, radioactive materials, and narcotics) under the strictest licensing requirements. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement August 20. The Russian ruble ceased to be legal tender. December 31. The use of foreign currency in local transactions was prohibited. Imports and Exports October 5. The ratio of surrender requirement for exports received in Russian rubles was reduced to 50 percent from 100 percent. October 19. The surrender requirement for pro- ceeds from exports in convertible currencies was set at 50 percent. December 2. All export taxes, licenses, and quotas, except those mandated by international or bilateral commitments, including the customs union ar- rangement with the Russian Federation, were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency o f. Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mecha- nism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Bel- gium and Luxembourg maintain spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31,1994, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Danish kroner Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 Belgian Francs or Luxemburg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 627.8800 2,395.2000 714.0300 57.7445 2,125.6000 24.2120 30.2715 465.6650 1,776.2000 529.6600 42.8260 1,576.4500 17.9570 22.4510 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1,1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central ex- change rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 23.3645 and 17.3285. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 28.1526 and 20.8795. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1994, the indicative middle rate for the U.S. dollar was BF 31.87 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The Belgian-Lux- embourg Administrative Commission has the au- thority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy but has delegated author- ity to issue import and export licenses to the licens- ing offices of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU), one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Banking and Finance Commission and in Luxembourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary Insti- tute (LMI). For purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics, residents are required to transmit to the Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI) the following information on all of their professional transactions with foreign countries: amount, cur- rency, economic nature, and country of residence of the foreign party in the transaction. For foreign pay- ments executed or received through a bank in Bel- gium or Luxembourg, residents provide this information to the BLEI through their banks; for all other professional foreign transactions, residents re- port to the BLEI directly on a monthly basis. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements force. are in Im ports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Union, and Viet Nam;5 and (2) certain specified im- ports from all other countries,6 including many tex- tile and steel products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, dia- monds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license. Many com- modities subject to individual licensing are also ad- mitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and also applies a system of minimum im- port prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non- EU countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for a few prod- ucts, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural and iron and steel products. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Do- mestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg francs or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely ac- cept foreign currency deposits from residents or nonresidents. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies.7 Bonds denominated in Belgium or Luxembourg francs may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital market. After they are issued, they are re- ported to the LMI, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins and bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; li- censes are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Settlements of gold may be made freely. Im- ports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a 1 percent value-added tax in Belgium. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) 5Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of prod- ucts that originate in and are shipped from these countries. 6Most imports do not require an import license when im- ported from the member countries of the European Union (EU). 7Since January 1,1991, this approval is no longer needed if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EU country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 per US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$2.69 and BZ$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a num- ber of currencies of member countries of CARICOM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conver- sions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Belize accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from June 14,1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for administering exchange control, which applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is ref- erence made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry administers trade controls. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement re- lates to a specified list of currencies2 in which au- thorized intermediaries are permitted tq deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member coun- try must be made in the currency of that country. ^he CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Banks must have permission from the Central Bank to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may also stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 14 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports by most of the public sector and by certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or hu- manitarian nature, and goods for re-export are ex- empt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a per- son, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of for- eign currency; and (4) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Re- quests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Foreign exchange is provided for payment of corre- spondence courses by the authorized dealers when applications are properly documented. Exports of foreign and domestic banknotes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic banknotes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 BELIZE except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these lim- its require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items are sub- ject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent.3 Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in ^he items are lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export duty is 2 percent. Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but imports of foreign currency are not restricted. Resident travel- ers are required to sell their excess holdings of for- eign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. Foreign direct investment is encouraged, and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the ap- proval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), which must be surrendered in its entirety to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward ex- change contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The matu- rity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's ex- change control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Op- erations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. For certain con- trols relating to capital flows, the countries speci- fied in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, in collaboration with the BCEAO, draws up the ex- change control regulations. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, and the Postal Administra- tion, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions re- lrThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. lating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) State signatories to the Lom£ Convention and from member countries of European Union (EU) and Operations Account countries have been abolished. Upon the recommendation of the Direc- torate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Min- istry of Finance, exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious metals require authoriza- tion from the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually ef- fected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. There is an inoperative payment agreement with Hungary. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of banknotes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn with- out the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of funds between nonresident ac- counts are not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Certain agencies have an import monopoly over specified commodities. Imports of goods originating in the EU, the Oper- ations Account countries, and countries belonging to the ACP group are free of import-licensing re- 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BENIN quirements. All merchandise imports originating in other countries are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Before ship- ment, goods from all sources are subject to inspec- tion for quality and price. All imports valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Importers may not purchase foreign ex- change to pay for imports earlier than eight days before suppliers ship the goods if a documentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of pay- ment if the goods have already been imported. Customs duties consist of four bands (i.e., 5, 10, 15, and 20 percent). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of Monetary and Fi- nancial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized intermediary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to prior authorization. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone other than WAMU member countries are allowed to take out the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than the CEA franc; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, correspond- ing to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist al- lowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the respective minis- tries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident finan- cial intermediaries approved by the Ministry of Fi- nance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and sur- render within eight days all means of payment ex- ceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Upon departure, all residents traveling to countries that are not members of the WAMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export all means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re- exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the im- portation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresi- dent deposits lodged in local banks. Upon presentation of an appropriate pay voucher, a residence permit, and documents indi- cating family situation, foreigners working in Benin may transfer up to 50 percent of their net salary abroad if they live with their family in Benin, or up to 80 percent if their family is living abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all foreign countries, including those in the Operations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, dia- monds, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of articles with a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomi- nation). Prior authorization for exports of these three product categories is granted by the Director- ate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Minis- try of Finance. Receipts from exports must be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the ship- ment at its destination. Proceeds must be repatri- ated to Benin through the BCEAO and sold to authorized banks within 30 days of the contractual due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BEN IN 59 Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account area.2 Resi- dents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Ac- count are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior ap- proval from the Minister of Finance and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad; over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in for- eign countries; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization from the Min- ister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls over foreign securities, these mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are also main- tained over imports and exports of gold, over the so- liciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply Effective August 1,1993, the repurchase of CFAF notes of the BCEAO in circulation outside member countries of the WAMU was suspended. to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance; at least 75 percent of the investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The Minister may re- quest postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquida- tion of either type of investment also requires decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise. Investment that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange is not considered direct investment. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) stipulates that preferential status may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism that are deemed to contribute to national develop- ment. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved in- Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 BENIN vestors under two regimes: the preferential and the special regimes. The preferential regime consists of three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies to small and medium-size enterprises; Category B, to large enterprises; and Category C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under Category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million and employ at least five perma- nent Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from customs duties and levies on equipment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes), as well as from income tax for five to nine years, depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. En- terprises qualifying for Category B must undertake investments valued at more than CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion) and employ at least 20 Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from virtually all border taxes on imports of equip- ment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the in- vestment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enterprises qualifying for Category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as Category B enterprises. In ad- dition, enterprises in this category are guaranteed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million that provide services in health, education, or public works. They benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applica- ble border taxes (excluding the local roads and sta- tistical taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their operations. The modalities of imple- menting this legislation are set out in Decree No. 91-2 of January 4,1991. Gold Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, is required to hold, sell, im- port, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports bytravelers of gold ar- ticles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The number of tariff bands was changed to four (5,10,15, and 20 percent). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum, the ex- ternal value of which is pegged to the Indian rupee. Indian rupees also circulate in Bhutan at a rate of Nu 1 per Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than Indian rupees are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are in- volved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other ex- change rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar (cash) were Nu 30.85 and Nu 31.85, respectively, per US$1; the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar (traveler's checks) were Nu 31.00 and Nu 31.70, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to the Royal Monetary Au- thority the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is charged with im- plementing the surrender requirements for pro- ceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments Except for imports of large capital goods for which clearance by the Ministry of Finance is re- quired, there are no restrictions on payments or transfers relating to any current account transaction with India. Clearance by the Ministry of Finance is required for the importation of capital and interme- diate goods from third countries. The release of for- eign exchange is managed separately by the Royal Monetary Authority upon recommendation by the Ministry of Finance. The Royal Monetary Authority does not provide foreign exchange to importers of consumer goods; the latter must make their own ar- rangements to obtain the foreign exchange before an import license is issued. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at one of four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Exports of antiques of Bhu- tanese origin require government approval. Pro- ceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan within 90 days. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian ru- pee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions must be approved by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano. The ex- change rate (the official selling rate) is determined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bo- livia. This official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comit£ de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate and is based on the exchange rates of the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar. The Central Bank is re- quired to offer in all auctions unitary lots of US$5,000 or multiples of this amount; the minimum allowable bid is US$5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. On December 31, 1994, the official selling rate was Bs 4.70 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Except for the require- ment to surrender the net proceeds from the expor- tation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. Successful bids chan- neled through the banking system are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not com- plying with the legal reserve requirement on depos- its at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign ex- change at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sec- tor institutions, including public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the buying and selling exchange rates on December 31, 1994, were Bs 4.69 and Bs 4.71, re- spectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 5,1967. The Central Bank is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector pur- chases of foreign exchange for debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the ex- ception of those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Restrictions on imports of sugar were eliminated on October 13,1992. Bolivia has a general uniform tariff of 10 percent. A tariff rate of 5 percent is applied to capital goods, and a rate of 2 percent is applied to imports of books and printed material. Wheat and investment- related products covered by the Investment Code and the Hydrocarbons Law are exempt from the import tariff.1 Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Profit remittances abroad are subject to a 12.5 percent tax (which is computed as equivalent to the 25 percent income tax times the presumed net profit of 50 percent of the amount remitted). Resi- dents traveling by air to neighboring countries are required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the tax on travel to other foreign destinations is Bs 150. Public Effective February 14,1992, the charge on capital goods was raised to 5 percent for the following two years. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 63 sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt ser- vice must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Outward remittances of profit are governed by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign ex- change expenditures undertaken to effect the ex- port transaction. Exports other than hydrocarbons are subject to an inspection fee of 1.55 percent for nontraditional products and 1.6 percent for tradi- tional products. A system of tax rebates reimburses exporters for indirect taxes and import duty paid on inputs of exported goods and services, including the duty component of depreciation of capital goods used. Exporters of small items whose value in Bolivia's annual exports is less than $3 million re- ceive tax rebates of 2 percent or 4 percent of the f.o.b. export value under a simplified procedure, and other exporters receive tax and import duty re- bates based on annually determined coefficients that reflect their documented cost structure. All ex- ports of goods and services must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on do- mestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign ex- change purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the commercial banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11,1983, finan- cial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial in- stitutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade operations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guarantees, advances and acceptances, loans for required financing with their correspon- dents abroad, and other operations generally ac- cepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange posi- tions up to the value of their net worth minus fixed assets. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those in- volving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law. In September 1990, the Investment Law of December 14,1981 was replaced by another investment law, under which domestic and foreign investors are treated equally (Law No. 1182 on Investment). The law is adminis- tered by the National Investment Institute. Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Law. Cer- tain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, sub- ject to a tax of 3 percent on the gross value of sale of gold bullion (Supreme Decree No. 23394, February 3,1993). Changes During 1994 Payments for Invisibles January 1. Profit remittances abroad were subject to a 12.5 percent tax, which is computed as equiva- lent to the 25 percent income tax times the pre- sumed net profit of 50 percent of the amount remitted (Law No. 1606: Modifications of Tax Sys- tem Law No. 843, December 22,1994). Exports and Export Proceeds December 12 (and January 30,1995). The system of indirect tax and duty drawback was revised. Exporters of small items whose value in Bolivia's annual exports is less than $3 million receive tax rebates of 2 percent or 4 percent of the f.o.b. ex- port value under a simplified procedure, and other exporters receive tax and import duty ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BOLIVIA rebates based on annually determined coeffi- cients that reflect their documented cost structure (Supreme Decree No. 23899 of December 12,1994 and Supreme Decree No. 23944 of January 30, 1995). Capital June 5. New regulations on foreign exchange po- sition were introduced, specifying that banks may hold foreign exchange positions up to the value of their net worth minus fixed assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula. Its external value in terms of the U.S. dollar, the in- tervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising the SDR and currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31,1994, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar was P 2.7174 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 3.9635 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international mar- kets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. External loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1,1990 have been protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk- Sharing Scheme; the scheme does not apply to new loans undertaken by parastatals subsequent to Oc- tober 1, 1990. At the end of 1994, the scheme ap- plied to 37 outstanding loans. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fully borne by the borrower, while the next 6 percent and the following 5 percent of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 basis, respec- tively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctua- tions in excess of 15 percent are fully borne by the Government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the Government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the commercial banks. Forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign cur- rency proceeds derived from the exportation of goods for at least three months and, in some cases, for up to six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and De- velopment Planning has delegated most of the ad- 1Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swiss francs, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, European Currency Units, and SDKs. ministration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Since January 1,1994, remit- tances for payments of imports of goods and ser- vices have been handled by the commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Botswana. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a for- eign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are gener- ally no import restrictions on goods moving among the five countries. The arrangement provides for the free movement of goods and the right of transit among members, as well as a common external tar- iff. Certain imported goods, including firearms, am- munition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of do- mestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import shipments exceeding P 2,500 require docu- mentation before foreign exchange is released. Applications for forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account within six months of the date of ex- portation. Retention of export proceeds for up to one year to finance certain transactions may be per- mitted by the Bank of Botswana on a case-by-case basis. The value of goods that can be given as gifts to nonresidents is limited to P 3,000 per year. A few 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BOTSWANA items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, re- quire permits before they can be exported. abroad in cases where there is a proven commercial need for such a facility. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Capital Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits (i.e., basic exchange allowances) is delegated to commercial banks; any remittances in excess of basic exchange allowances must be re- ferred to the Bank of Botswana for prior approval. Once the bona fide nature of applications has been established and all other requirements have been fulfilled by the applicant, remittances are approved. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel by permanent residents is the equivalent of P 24,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 12,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel by permanent and temporary residents is P 1,000 a day, up to a maxi- mum of P 70,000 a calendar year. Permanent resi- dents may use credit cards in Botswana for settlement of both pula and foreign currency liabili- ties; airline tickets may be purchased directly from travel agents or be remitted from abroad, and they are not counted as part of the annual travel allow- ance. The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident may retain for future travel use is the equivalent of P 2,000 in currency or trav- eler's checks; any excess amount must be surren- dered within six months of the date of return. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent resi- dents to cover maintenance and incidental expenses other than fees or tuition is P 5,000 a month a per- son and P 7,500 a month a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. A temporary resi- dent employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad annually, without reference to the Bank of Botswana, P 25,000 or 65 percent of total eligible earnings, whichever is greater; the limit applicable to a self-employed temporary resident is P 50,000. The period during which temporary residents are allowed to remit their earnings abroad is a block of 36 months, or the period of employment, which- ever is shorter. Separately, travelers residing in Botswana may take out domestic banknotes and foreign currency in amounts of P 2,000 and P 5,000 a trip, respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic banknotes and coins. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they brought in with them in addition to a maximum of P 500 a trip in domestic currency. The Bank of Botswana may authorize residents to maintain foreign currency accounts with banks Pension and life insurance funds may invest up to one-half of their funds abroad, subject to the re- quirement of 12 month's advance notification to Bank of Botswana of intention to repatriate funds. Applications for investment abroad of other funds are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward direct invest- ment in new or existing businesses is generally en- couraged but must be financed with funds from external sources. On disinvestment by a nonresi- dent, the Bank of Botswana allows immediate repa- triation of proceeds up to a maximum of P 50 million. The excess may be required to be repatri- ated in installments over a period not exceeding three years. Authorized dealers may approve remit- tances of dividends/profits without referring to the Bank of Botswana. Remittances of interim divi- dends are permitted only for companies listed in the Botswana Share Market. Inward portfolio in- vestment is also permitted in shares issued by com- panies quoted in the Botswana Share Market, provided the funds for financing the acquisitions originate with a nonresident source. Nonresident- controlled companies incorporated in Botswana may make similar investments (referred to as inter- nal portfolio investments), which need not be fi- nanced with funds from external sources. In the case of both inward and internal portfolio invest- ments, a shareholder or his nominee may not ac- quire an interest in excess of 5 percent of the company's paid-up stock. Total portfolio holdings by nonresidents, including nonresident-controlled companies, may not exceed 49 percent of the "free stock" of a local company, that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by direct investors. Nonresident-controlled companies may also invest with domestic currency funds in any securities is- sued by the Bank of Botswana. Nonresident- controlled companies (including branches of for- eign companies) are permitted to borrow locally from all sources up to P 500,000. Applications for local finance in excess of P 500,000 by non-resident- controlled companies may be considered by the Bank of Botswana, provided that the resulting debt-equity ratio does not exceed 4:1. Borrowed funds may be used for working capital purposes or for acquisition of new fixed assets (e.g., plant, ma- chinery, equipment, and buildings); these funds may not be used to acquire financial assets. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 67 earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded by nonresi- dent-controlled manufacturing companies, if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employ- ment. Any external borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. De- parting temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Double taxation agreements exist between Botswana and South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigra- tion allowance of up to P 150,000 in addition to household and personal effects whose value does not exceed P 75,000. Applications for remittances in excess of these amounts are dealt with by the Bank of Botswana. Such remittances are normally autho- rized if the amount is not too large; if the amount is excessive, remittances may be permitted in install- ments over three years. Nonresident-controlled companies are allowed to invest domestically generated funds in pula as well as those from external sources in any securities is- sued by the Bank of Botswana. Self-employed temporary residents may remit abroad up to 65 percent of the previous year's tax- able income, or P 50,000, whichever is greater. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Real (R$), the exter- nal value of which is determined by demand and supply in the interbank exchange market, although the Central Bank has set a floor for the external value of the real in the commercial market at a rate of R$l per US$1.1 Transactions in the exchange mar- ket are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies and brokers deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks. The exchange rates are freely negotiated between the authorized institutions and their clients in all operations. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates in the interbank exchange market were R$0.844 and R$0.846, respec- tively, per US$1. The same exchange rates apply to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilat- eral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in the interna- tional market. A "financial transactions tax" (imposto sobre oper- agoes de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relati- vas a titulos e valores mobiliarios (IOF)) of 25 percent is levied on exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services. Limits for the short position of banks are deter- mined according to the size of the bank's total net assets indicated in the financial demonstrations of June and December. No limit is imposed on the long position, but authorized banks must deposit overnight, at the Central Bank, the amounts needed to eliminate overbought positions that exceed the equivalent of US$50 million. The limit for the long position of brokers is fixed at US$1 million; they may not maintain a short position. The banks are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be settled within 2 working days for spot transactions or within 180 days for forward transactions. Banks may pay their clients a premium, corresponding to the expected variation of the domestic currency in relation to the currency subject of negotiation, by reason of forward opera- tions. In addition, when an exchange contract for lrThe real replaced the cruzeiro real at a conversion rate of 2,750 cruzeiros real to R$l on July 1,1994. forward settlement is concluded, banks can provide short-term financing to exporters by providing do- mestic currency in advance, before or after the ship- ment of goods. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In ac- cordance with the guidelines established by the council, exchange controls, regulations affecting foreign capital, and the management of interna- tional reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Cen- tral Bank. The Ministry of Planning enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The foreign trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, imple- mented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Technical Department of Commercial Interchange (DTIC). The Technical Department of Tariffs (DTT) of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism is respon- sible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DTT also decides on changes in customs duties un- der the provisions of existing legislation. The Minis- try of Finance coordinates public sector import policy. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of fi- nal destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries2 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements and no special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. 2Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Ro- mania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies ev- ery 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 69 Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with the SECEX, and goods may be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports are grouped into the fol- lowing three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, in- cluding samples without commercial value and cer- tain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate issued by the DTIC; and (3) prohibited imports (luxury boats with an initial sale price of US$3,500 or more, agrochemical prod- ucts not authorized under Brazilian regulations, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy). Importers are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change in the exchange market within 180 days of the settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the Government, auton- omous agencies, and public enterprises).3 Most imports require prior approval from the DTIC, which is usually given promptly to regis- tered importers of nonprohibited items. The DTIC is authorized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depending on the product. The DTIC is- sues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse import- ers. Import certificates for a number of specified im- ports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed but before they clear customs. The importation of certain products requires the approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$600 imported into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. 3Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the president, an annual investment program specifying their expected import re- quirements. Elected imports are exempt from the prior approval require- ment, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the drawback scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. The SECEX may approve applications for pay- ment for imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without prior authorization from the Central Bank. External fi- nancing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed and accrued inter- est may be made only upon presentation of a certif- icate of authorization and a payment schedule issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. On October 19, 1994, the time to settle anticipatory settlements for critical imports was set at 30 days. Exchange contracts may be settled within 180 days. The drafts, or letters of credit, relative to such contracts must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Official education and research institu- tions and the Ministry of Health may settle con- tracts within 360 days following the same rules. Exchange contracts for imports financed under let- ters of credit must be closed on the date of settle- ment or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Official education and re- search institutions and the Ministry for Health may settle exchange contracts up to 360 days prior to the maturity date. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law, Law No. 4131 of September 3, 1962. In addition to certain restrictions on remit- tances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on re- mittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Payments for current invisibles not covered by current regulations require approval from the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DE- CAM) or the FIRCE; remittances are authorized freely, subject to the presentation of supporting doc- uments as evidence that a bona fide current transac- tion is involved. Prior to October 1994, Brazilian residents tempo- rarily staying abroad were permitted to purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$4,000 a month in the foreign exchange market; this limit was eliminated on October 19,1994. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BRAZIL Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks and for technical, scientific, and admin- istrative assistance are registered with the FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances of in- terest on loans and credits and of related amortiza- tion payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to the withholding income tax at a rate of 15 percent or at the rate determined by the agreements concluded with the country con- cerned for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts in the first five years of the company's op- eration; amounts exceeding this limit are consid- ered profits. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- action tax of 25 percent. The financial transaction tax applicable to purchases of foreign exchange for payments of contracts involving transfers of tech- nology that are registered with the National Insti- tute of Industrial Property was reduced to zero from 25 percent in 1994. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over US$10,000 or the equiva- lent in other currencies. Foreign tourists leaving Brazil may buy foreign currency up to 50 percent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency dur- ing the visit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods require the prior ap- proval of the SECEX, while exports of others, such as hides of wild animals in any form, are prohib- ited. Exports requiring approval include those ef- fected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum ex- port prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports re- quiring prior authorization from government agencies. In January 1993, the authorities intro- duced a computerized system of export-licensing customs clearance and exchange clearance controls. This Integrated Foreign Trade System (Sistema Inte- grado de Comercio Exterior—SISCOMEX), introduced by Decree No. 660, dated September 25, 1992 and implemented on January 4,1993, integrates the ac- tivities related to registration, monitoring, and con- trol of foreign trade operations in a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises, basically, two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem has eliminated, for more than 90 percent of Brazilian exports, all paper- work (forms, licenses, and certificates), allowing ex- porters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the Central Bank. The import subsystem is be- ing developed. Prior to October 1994, foreign exchange contracts covering transactions could be concluded either 180 days before the goods were shipped or within 180 days of shipment and needed to be settled within 5 working days of payment abroad. Pre-export fi- nancing could be obtained either through a local bank against exchange contracts up to a maximum period of 180 days or through the foreign supplier, who could prepay for imports before the goods ar- rived. On October 19,1994, the regulations govern- ing anticipatory export settlements were tightened, and export prefinancing was banned in respect of operations with terms exceeding 720 days. The time for anticipatory settlements was reduced to 90 days from 180 days for large exporters (exporting more than US$10 million a year) and to 150 days for small exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes but must declare to cus- toms any values over US$10,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Capital Brazilian banks are permitted to sell foreign ex- change to Brazilian investors in MERCOSUR coun- tries in the exchange market. Capital inflows in the form of financial loans un- der National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of Law No. 4131 on foreign investment, require prior ap- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 71 proval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad; when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the na- tional Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution; and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (that is, the Government, au- tonomous agencies, and public enterprises). In ad- dition, prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the funds originate abroad. Proceeds of foreign bor- rowing converted into domestic currency are sub- ject to a financial transaction tax of 7 percent (increased from 3 percent on October 19,1994). Oth- erwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although subsequent use of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be restricted. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. Portfolio investment by foreign inves- tors in fixed-income instruments is restricted to a single class of fixed-income funds, and these instru- ments are subject to a transaction tax of 9 percent (increased from 5 percent on October 19,1994). For the purposes of the repatriation and remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capi- tal and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with the FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment used to produce goods or render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign ex- change; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm residing or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans and includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct in- vestment is defined as the foreign capital that con- stitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an eco- nomic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is consid- ered to be a loan, except portfolio investments. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad is considered import financing, whether financed by the manufacturer (suppliers' credit) or by a third party. Basically, foreign investments in the Brazilian capital market may be made through one of the five alternatives established under National Monetary Council Resolution 1289, Annexes I-V, dated March 20,1987. Investment Companies (Annex I) are open to natural persons and companies, and residents domiciled or headquartered abroad. Such compa- nies take the form of authorized capital corpora- tions whose objective is to invest in diversified securities portfolios. They are managed by invest- ment banks, brokerage firms, or securities and ex- change dealers. Investment Funds (Annex II) are open to natural persons and companies, and resi- dents domiciled or headquartered abroad, as well as to funds or other foreign collective investment entities. The funds originate from a fund of re- sources to be invested in a securities and exchange portfolio, established as an open fund without legal representation. Annex III is a Diversified Stock Portfolio managed by an investment bank, a bro- kerage firm, or a securities and exchange dealer, headquartered in Brazil and owned jointly with a foreign institution. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individu- als is US$1,000. Portfolio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the Invest- ment Fund—Foreign Capital. The minimum partic- ipation in this fund is US$5,000, and invested capital may be repatriated freely. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad (including pension funds, portfolios belonging to fi- nancial institutions and insurance companies, and mutual investment funds) may maintain portfolios of bonds and other securities in Brazil once the con- stitutions and administrations of these entities have been approved by the Central Bank and the Securi- ties and Exchange Commission (Annex IV). Through the mechanism of Depository Receipts (Annex V), it is possible to purchase abroad certifi- cates representing stocks of a domestic public com- pany (open capital). These papers represent the securitizations of the stocks of an issuing company. The depository receipts are issued abroad when a foreign importer or a Brazilian investor acquires stocks of a Brazilian company and deposits them, on custody, in a local custodian bank, which then instructs the depository bank abroad to issue the corresponding depository receipts. Portfolio invest- ment in fixed-income instruments may be made through the purchase of quotas of the Investment Fund Foreign Capital. Portfolio investments are ex- empt from the capital gains tax, but profits earned by foreign investors are subject to a 15 percent in- come tax. Invested capital may be repatriated freely. In October 1994, a financial transaction tax of 1 per- cent was imposed on new foreign investment in the stock market. The issuance of debentures that can be converted into stocks in domestic enterprises is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BRAZIL permitted. Externally financed nonprofit organiza- tions are permitted to undertake debt-for-nature swaps. Investments made in the form of goods are sub- ject to approval and registration at the Central Bank. To register loans made in a foreign currency, the interest rate must correspond to that prevailing in the loan's original market; the amortization schedule must not be disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment. Reinvestments are defined as the profits of com- panies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies residing abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and the currency of the country to which the profits could have been re- mitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing on the date the profits are reinvested. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolu- tion No. 63 (as amended), private, commercial, in- vestment, and development banks and the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic re-lending in order to fi- nance working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (re- lated to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Financial and nonfinancial institutions are authorized to obtain resources from abroad by issuing commercial pa- pers, notes, and bonds, including securities, that can be converted into stocks. Brazilian banks lo- cated abroad are allowed to issue medium- and long-term certificates of deposit, and exporters are allowed to issue medium-term debt instruments se- cured with future export receipts. All other finan- cial loans in foreign currency are governed by the general provisions of Law No. 4131 on foreign in- vestment. Loans contracted under this law also re- quire prior authorization from the Central Bank, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans contracted under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of 36 months. Loans are au- thorized only if the amount and the maturity con- form to requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external in- debtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1992, the Central Bank's minimum acceptable ma- turity was set at 30 months. However, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the minimum specified ma- turity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or to a second borrower. Remittances of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance have been permitted since October 19,1994. Outward transfers other than capital may be made directly through authorized banks upon pre- sentation by the remitters of the appropriate docu- mentation. Outward transfers not included in public regulations need prior authorization from the Central Bank. The private sector and both the financial and nonfinancial public sector are allowed access to for- eign exchange for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks. Gold Since the adoption of the Federal Constitution in 1988, gold transactions in Brazil have been deliv- ered in two separate markets: the financial and commercial markets. Over 50 percent of transac- tions occur in the financial market, which is regu- lated by the Central Bank. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1 percent financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The Central Bank and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets (Law No. 4595 of December 31,1964 and Law No. 7766 of May 11,1989). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by the SECEX. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The authorities introduced a new unit of account (the Unit of Real Value or URV) equivalent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 73 to US$1 and sought to establish the use of the URV in the denomination of contracts and prices. The URV would be adjusted daily in light of estimated inflation to keep the exchange rate between the cruzeiro real and the U.S. dollar constant. June 21. The financial transactions tax for pur- chases of foreign exchange for payment of contracts involving transfers of technology that are registered with the National Institute of Industrial Property was reduced to zero from 25 percent. July 1. A new currency, the real (R$), was intro- duced to replace the cruzeiro real and the URV at the conversion rate of 2,750 cruzeiro real to R$l. All contracts denominated in URVs were converted to reais at a conversion rate of 1:1. The Central Bank would set a floor of R$l per US$1 in the commercial market and be committed to use its international re- serves to maintain the floor for an indefinite pe- riod. Otherwise, the exchange rate would be determined by market forces. Imports and Import Payments August 31. The 80 percent prefinancing require- ment of imports with financing greater than 360 days was abolished (Carta-Circular Form No. 2486). Payments for Invisibles March 2. The transfer abroad of national currency was required to be supported by documents (Circu- lar No. 2409 of the Central Bank of Brazil). October 19. The limit on the foreign exchange al- lowance for travel abroad was eliminated (Circular No. 2494 of the Central Bank of Brazil). Exports and Export Proceeds October 19. The regulations governing anticipa- tory exports settlements were tightened. The period during which to effect these settlements was re- duced to 90 days from 180 days for large exporters (who export more than US$10 million a year) and to 150 days for small exporters (in early February 1995, the distinction between small and large ex- porters was eliminated). October 19. Anticipatory settlements were sub- jected to a 15 percent reserve requirement on credit operations (without interest remuneration). Capital January 13. National Monetary Council Resolu- tion No. 2042 authorized certain institutions to con- duct swap operations involving gold, exchange rates, interest rates, and price indices in the over- the-counter market. January 19. National Monetary Council Resolu- tion No. 2046 modified the provisions of Regulation No. 1289 of March 20,1987 concerning the constitu- tion, operation, and administration of foreign capi- tal, investment companies, and stock and bond portfolios maintained in the country by foreign in- stitutional investors. February 28. The regulations on the financial transactions tax were revised whereby up to 25 per- cent may be applied on the issue of bonds abroad and on foreign investments in fixed-income securi- ties, when the Government considers it necessary to raise the tax rates from the current levels of 3 per- cent and 5 percent, respectively. March 2. Automatic authorization for issuing bonds, commercial paper, and other fixed-income instruments abroad was terminated. Circular No. 2410 altered the provisions that govern the prior authorization and registration of foreign cred- its through issues of securities on the international market. Circular No. 2411 permitted foreign cur- rency deposits resulting from excess exchange buyer positions to be made in cash. April 15. Brazil completed arrangements to re- schedule its external debts to commercial bank creditors. June 15. National Monetary Council Resolution No. 2079 modified the provisions of Regulation No. 1289 of March 20, 1987, concerning the consti- tution, operation, and administration of foreign in- vestment companies and stock and securities portfolios. July 1. The minimum period for external export prefinancing was extended to two years. August 31. Prepayment of foreign borrowing and import financing was permitted (Resolution No. 2105). The 20 percent limit for import financing down payments was eliminated (Circular Letter No. 2486). September 22. The constitution and operation of Foreign Investment Funds were regulated by Reso- lution No. 2111 and Circular No. 2485. October 5. Inflows of resources in the form of ad- vances for future capital increases and bridge in- vestment in anticipation of future conversions of debts into investment were prohibited (Circular No. 2487). October 19. National Monetary Council Resolu- tion No. 2115 altered the provisions of Regulations No. 1289 of March 20,1987 pertaining to the consti- tution, operation, and administration of foreign in- vestment companies and stock and securities portfolios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 RRA 7 T T. October 19. The financial transaction tax on for- eign investment in fixed-income instruments was increased to 9 percent from 5 percent. October 19. (1) The financial transaction tax was levied on foreign investment in stocks at the rate of 1 percent; (2) inflows of resources through opera- tions involving anticipated payment of exports were suspended; and (3) the financial transaction tax on foreign borrowing was increased to 7 percent from 3 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev. The Bulgarian National Bank quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on the weighted average of transactions in the interbank exchange market during the previous trading day. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international exchange market. On December 31, 1994, the ex- change rate quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was Leva 65.015 per US$1. Exchange bureaus are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions in cash only. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the of- ficial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for im- plementing the exchange rate policy. Twenty com- mercial banks, 2 branches of foreign banks, and 1 financial institution conduct foreign exchange (forex) transactions. Another 13 banks are autho- rized to open bank accounts for settlement of pay- ments abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia maintains bilateral agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the proce- dures set forth in those agreements.1 Transactions are generally settled through clearing accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts (annual and multiyear) are generally to be settled in goods during the six *At the end of 1994, Bulgaria maintained bilateral clearing and barter agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Ban- gladesh, Cambodia, China, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mozam- bique, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Romania, the Russian Federation, Syria, and Tanzania. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable ruble accounts with Cuba, Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ro- mania, and the Russian Federation. months after the agreement has been terminated; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts in Bulgaria, which may be credited with- out restriction, and from which transfers abroad may be made with permission from the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank (pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 15 of the Council of Ministers of 1991). Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in foreign currencies and leva without authorization, limitation, or restriction for purposes of making transactions in Bulgaria. The crediting and debiting of foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations, and transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports Imports of some sensitive goods are subject to registration at the Ministry of Trade. Imports of ice cream are subject to a quota. Imports of certain goods are restricted for health and security reasons. Import tariff rates range from 5 percent to 55 per- cent. Tariffs are calculated on the transaction values (actual invoice price paid) in foreign currency and converted to leva. An import surcharge of 3 percent was introduced in August 1993, was reduced to 2 percent effective January 1, 1994, and is to be re- duced to 1 percent effective January 1, 1995. The surcharge is waived for the importation of certain energy products, pharmaceuticals, and facilities for environmental protection. Under Government De- cree No. 241 (January 1, 1994), certain goods in these categories are exempt from customs duty or are subject to ceilings for duty-free imports or re- duced-duty imports. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 241, export taxes are levied on certain types of timber, hides, wool, sunflower oil, grain, and some copper products. The export tax is quoted in U.S. dollars but paid in leva. Exports and imports of tobacco products, coal, petroleum, livestock and meat, dairy products, certain grains, textiles, 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BULGARIA ferrous metals and alloys, and imports of flat glass are required to be registered. Special licenses are required for transactions un- der barter and clearing arrangements, for exports proceeds to be received in leva; exports under gov- ernment credits and exports subject to quotas and voluntary export restraint agreements; imports and exports of military hardware and related technolo- gies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive and hazardous materials; crafts and antiques; pharma- ceuticals; herbicides; pesticides; flour; unbottled al- cohol; intellectual property; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within two working days. Exports of ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal, female livestock, and grains were prohibited until the end of 1994. The exportation of goods received as humanitarian aid and of human blood and plasma is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tourist travel are limited to the leva equivalent of up to $2,000 a person a year for people without for- eign currency deposits. Resident holders of foreign exchange deposits may use balances on these de- posit accounts without restriction. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resident individuals or resident legal per- sons if proper documentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for (1) authorized imports of goods and services; (2) transportation and other ex- penses related to the conveyance of goods and pas- sengers carried out by nonresidents; (3) interest and amortization with respect to credits approved by the Bulgarian National Bank; (4) business travel in compliance with the established procedures; (5) insurance fees; (6) banking commissions; (7) ed- ucation and training; (8) health care; (9) diplomatic, consular, and other government agencies of Bul- garia abroad; (10) commercial representative offices of Bulgarian traders abroad; (11) commissions, ad- vertising fees, and other expenses related to eco- nomic activities (including fairs and exhibitions); (12) membership fees in international organiza- tions; and (13) participation in international con- tests and festivals. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency from Bulgarian commercial banks to transfer abroad (1) investment income received in leva; (2) compen- sation received following nationalization of invest- ment enterprises; (3) proceeds from liquidation of investment; (4) proceeds from sales of investment enterprises received in leva; and (5) amounts re- ceived in leva under judicial settlement of guaran- teed claims. Transfers abroad in compliance with the above cases may be effected upon presentation of documents that certify that outstanding liabilities have been paid. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers and remittances for family maintenance are not explicitly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of February 8, 1991), which governs foreign exchange control, but they have been treated implicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The following transfers abroad require prior permission from the Bulgarian National Bank in consultation with the Ministry of Finance as stip- ulated by the Decree No. 15: (1) indirect invest- ments; (2) official credits extended to and received from abroad; (3) investments abroad; and (4) free transfers in foreign currency when they are not con- nected with imports of goods and services. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surren- dered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Residents and nonresidents may take out or bring in Bulgarian banknotes and coins up to Leva 10,000; permission from the Bulgarian Na- tional Bank is required to import or export amounts exceeding this limit. Residents may take out foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $1,000 with- out restriction. There is no limit on foreign currency notes nonresidents may bring into the country but the amount must be declared, and they may take out unspent foreign currency notes upon departure. Capital Licensed banks may borrow abroad without the authorization of the Bulgarian National Bank. The forex-licensed commercial banks, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guaran- tee from the Government of Bulgaria and if their borrowing complies with the prudential regula- tions set up by the Bulgarian National Bank. They may also extend foreign currency and lev loans to residents and nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by the Law on the Economic Activity of For- eign Persons and Protection of Foreign Investments (State Gazette No. 8/1992). Foreign direct invest- ments must be registered with the Ministry of Fi- nance and require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct investments are guaranteed against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign firms are granted the same ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 77 status as domestic firms; they may, under certain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, in- cluding reduced taxation and access to judicial ap- peal outside the system of state arbitration. In general, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are sub- ject to a profit tax of 30 percent; all other firms with foreign participation are subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liquidated capital and after-tax profits is not re- stricted, and transfers of profits in domestic cur- rency do not require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, processing, and disposal of gold, silver, and platinum. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, im- port, or export gold for monetary and nonmonetary purposes. All domestic transactions for industrial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in precious met- als. Resident individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jew- elry products that they may import is limited. Non- residents are permitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian National Bank, and the Ministry of In- dustry and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and plati- num products. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 1. Government Decree No. 241 on import and export regulations was issued. February 11. A new currency regulation govern- ing the exportation and importation of Bulgarian banknotes and coins, foreign currency notes, and other financial assets was issued. December 20. Government Decree No. 307 on im- ports and exports was issued, replacing Govern- ment Decree No. 241. Imports and Exports January 1. The import surcharge was reduced to 2 percent. May 15. The prohibition on exports of female live- stock was extended until December 31,1994. June 6. Exports of meat and livestock were al- lowed with licenses. October 15. The prohibition on exports of grains was extended from the end of September 1994 to December 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 the external value or which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris ex- change market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a com- mission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange.3 In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on certain lists. All contracts for forward ex- change cover must be denominated in the currency of payment stipulated in the contract and are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Nonrenewable forward exchange contracts may be concluded for one month. For certain prod- ucts, the maturity period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold, the repatriation of export proceeds, the issuing, ad- vertising or offering for sale of securities and capital assets, and the soliciting of funds for investments abroad, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Ni- ger, Senegal, and Togo). All payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. ^he CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Banks are free to determine and collect a commission on transfers between member countries of the WAMU. 3Banks may levy a commission of 2 percent on the exchange of CFAF banknotes for French franc notes. % Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and the opening of external accounts in for- eign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to its authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- torate-General of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the Operations Account Area, are visaed by the cus- toms administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of Operations Account countries. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts.4 Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France or the country con- cerned in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs or other currencies of the Opera- tions Account Area through foreign accounts in francs. 4A bilateral agreement maintained with Ghana is inoperative. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 79 Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acquisition of an official import document is neces- sary for imports exceeding values of CFAF 250,000. A special import license (autorisation specials d'im- portation (ASI)) is required for imports of sugar, rice, explosives, arms, munitions, and military paraphernalia. A technical import visa (cerificat de conformite) is required for the following products: sugar, selected pharmaceutical products (tables R06, R6, R20), in- secticides, printed fabric and bleached and tinted threads, wheat and cereal flour, tomato paste, tires and inner tubes for motorcycles, and mats and bags of polyethylene and polypropylene. Imports of cer- tain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import docu- ment requirement. The Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. All imports, with a few exceptions, are subject to customs duties of 5 per- cent; the rates on cereals range from 4 percent to 26 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. All imports from outside the Economic Commu- nity of West African States (ECOWAS) are subject to a solidarity communal levy of 1 percent, and im- ports of certain goods that are also locally pro- duced are subject to a protection tax ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent. Imports of the following products are prohibited: oil-carrying tank trucks, used coaches and buses, moped inner tubes, bicycle tires and inner tubes, and wheat flour from countries other than those of the West African Economic Community (WAEC), as well as ivory and fishing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square centimeters. All import transactions with a value of more than CFAF 500,000 effected with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import li- censes or prior import authorizations entitle import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment must be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other coun- tries are subject to exchange control approval, which, for many invisibles, has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermedi- ary banks and the Postal Administration are em- powered to make payments of up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFAF banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day within the limit of one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be cumulated with tourist allowances); (3) allow- ances in excess of these limits are subject to the au- thorization of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective ministries of finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAMU, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution so BURKINA FASO abroad and registered in the name of the nonresi- dent traveler is not restricted, subject to documenta- tion that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of for- eign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of moni- toring, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization from the relevant services of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In ac- cordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, exports of ivory are subject to special regulations (autorisation spe- ciale d'exportation (ASE)). Exports to Ghana are also subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipu- lated in the commercial contract must not, in princi- ple, be more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination). All export transactions of more than CFAF 500,000 relating to foreign countries, in- cluding countries in the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export attestation form. Most ex- ports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Resi- dent travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 25,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an autho- rized bank within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinab£ Government; and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special con- trols are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign firms, institutions, and private individuals, as well as over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad. These special controls also ap- ply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance5 and, unless the Minister specifically ex- empts them, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso6 must be declared to Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies having their headquarters in Burkina Faso. Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 81 the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration to request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of in- vestments, whether these are Burkina^ invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be reported to the Minister of Finance. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock ex- change. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burki- nab£ participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sec- tors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securi- ties of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents also requires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses approved by the Minister of Finance to finance in- ternational merchanting transactions; (3) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of these loans outstanding —including the new borrowing—does not exceed CFAF100 million for any one borrower, the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the pro- ceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself is subject to such approval but is ex- empt if the loan is exempt from special authoriza- tion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO acting on be- half of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably ex- pand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinab£ des m£taux pr£cieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CEA franc was devalued CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. to Payments for Invisibles January 18. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out banknotes, other than CFAF banknotes, up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in ex- cess of this limit may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. (Prior to this decree, the limit applied to BCEAO banknotes for travel to countries in the BEAC zone was equivalent to CFAF 2 million, and the limit for travel to France and Comoros was the equivalent to CFAF million in banknotes other than CEA notes.) Administration of Control January 11. The treaty establishing the West Afri- can Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), complementing the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), was signed by the following seven countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. One of the objec- tives of this union would be to create a common ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BURKINA FASO market among the member countries, based on free movement of persons, goods, services, and capital; a common external tariff; and a common trade policy. March 15. The WAEC was dissolved. May 6. Law No. 17/94 establishing relations with foreign countries as part of the reform of exchange regulations within WAEMU was adopted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, the external value of which has been pegged since May 14, 1992 to a basket of currencies that reflects the pattern of Burundi's international trade. On December 31, 1994, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 244.96 and FBu 248.92, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 18 currencies1 and for 2 units of account, Euro- pean currency units (ECUs), and units of account of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Af- rica, are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu- rundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc-U.S. dollar rate and the transaction value of these currencies and units in terms of the U.S. dol- lar. Commercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account and on behalf of their customers at rates within maximum margins of 1 percent on either side of the middle rate established by the central bank. Commercial banks are allowed to borrow foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Exporters of cof- fee are also allowed to borrow foreign exchange through their banks or from their customers for purposes of crop financing and hedging against ex- change risks. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to six authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through SDR accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any convert- ible currency. 1Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident (Foreign Currency Convertible Burundi Franc) Accounts Accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of foreign nation- ality (such as staff of diplomatic missions) who are temporarily established in Burundi, (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status (such as diplomatic missions and international or- ganizations), and (3) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These ac- counts may be credited freely with any convertible currency, and they may be debited freely for with- drawals of Burundi francs or for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 in foreign cur- rency may be withdrawn in banknotes upon pre- sentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket) for an unlimited number of trips. Withdrawals of banknotes in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. These accounts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside Burundi may maintain accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and juridical per- sons of foreign nationality who reside abroad, (2) enterprises authorized to operate in the free trade zone, (3) exporters of nontraditional products, who are authorized to retain 30 percent of their ex- port proceeds, (4) Burundi nationals resident abroad, and (5) any other natural or juridical per- sons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Bu- rundi francs for payments in Burundi; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods, except for banknotes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and commissions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn in banknotes upon presentation of travel documents. Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. If no deposits are made to the foreign account within three months of its opening, the ac- count must be closed. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 BURUNDI Imports and Import Payments Imports are fully liberalized, except for a limited number of goods the importation of which is re- stricted mainly for health or security reasons. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of im- ports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Bu- rundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available either at the time the goods are shipped on the basis of the shipping documents or after the goods are imported. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70 percent of their net annual income (80 percent in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50 percent of their production). Private joint-stock companies may freely and im- mediately transfer 100 percent of the return on for- eign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are autho- rized to transfer abroad 100 percent of their earn- ings after deduction of local expenses. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, in- dustrial, office, and residential buildings is permit- ted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses) in any one-year period; the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be trans- ferred in full after one year provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years for commercial, industrial, and office buildings, and for three years for residen- tial buildings. Residents may apply for foreign exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange al- lowance for business travel is $200 a person a day or its equivalent ($250 for exporters), subject to a maximum limit of 15 days a trip. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. There is no limit on the number of trips a person may take. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are fully liberalized. Export proceeds must be collected within 30 days of the date of ex- port declaration at customs for shipment by air or within 90 days for all other shipments. Exporters operating in the free trade area are not required to surrender their export proceeds to an authorized bank. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from ex- ports of nontraditional products are set by individ- ual banks. All proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Export- ers of nontraditional products may retain up to 30 percent of proceeds. Exports of mineral prod- ucts, coffee, and hides are subject to export duties as are exports of all goods that do not qualify for ex- port promotion. Duties paid on raw materials at the time of importation may be refunded, provided that the manufactured products are exported and the proceeds collected. In the case of fully paid ex- ports of nontraditional primary products, the re- fund will cover 10 percent of the value of such payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the central bank and traveler's checks and up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi banknotes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling con- vertible currencies or by using a credit card. Pay- ment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the central bank and in the case of nationals of Rwanda or Zaire who produce dec- larations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on January 14,1987, new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic impor- tance may be granted priority status to which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 85 specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises ac- corded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable peri- ods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are con- sidered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Ministry of Development Planning and Reconstruction is re- sponsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addi- tion, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the invest- ment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of for- eign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange im- ported by resident enterprises to provide working capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank; and the re- transfer may take place as soon as the funds to be transferred are available and with no time limita- tion. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the amount received from abroad. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. Gold All natural or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the ministers responsible for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Bu- rundi francs at the average daily rates communi- cated by the central bank. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the mining and customs departments. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian Kiel. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official and the market rates. Adjustments to the official exchange rate are made daily by the Na- tional Bank of Cambodia so as to limit the spread between the official and parallel market rates to no more than 1 percent since June 1994. The official ex- change rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the Government and state-owned en- terprises. On December 31, 1994, the official ex- change rate was CR 2,588 per US$1, and the market rate was CR 2,605 per US$1. The National Bank is responsible for quoting daily official rates, at which the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambodia and the Phnom Penh Municipal Bank (two state-owned commercial banks) buy and sell foreign exchange. Other commercial banks are free to buy foreign exchange and sell it at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the rate prevailing in the market. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy only banknotes and traveler's checks and are required by law to conduct their transactions at the official rate; in practice, however, these transactions take place at the market rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The exchange control regime is defined by the 1991 Law on the Management of Foreign Ex- change, Precious Metals, and Stones. This law vests responsibility for the management of foreign exchange (as well as precious metals and stones) with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the National Bank. The National Bank is autho- rized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. State-owned enterprises must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to engage in export/import trade or in any other businesses generating foreign exchange and are required to repatriate foreign exchange earnings. Registered trading companies are not required to have a li- cense to engage in foreign trade activities. New foreign exchange legislation that eliminates the foreign exchange restrictions contained in the 1991 law is expected to be presented to the National Assembly by May 1995. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Cambodia does not maintain operative bi- lateral payments agreements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with commer- cial banks. Although there are no limits on the bal- ances of these accounts, under the 1991 law, the funds may not be used to settle domestic transac- tions but must be converted into domestic currency. In practice, however, such transactions are allowed to be settled through foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Commerce, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. Imports undertaken by registered trading com- panies require no license and there are no quantita- tive restrictions on imports, although imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohib- ited for reasons of national security, health, environ- mental well-being, or public morality. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade are not restricted, but are regulated by the Law on Invest- ment in the Kingdom of Cambodia of August 1994. The repatriation of profits is permitted in accor- dance with the relevant laws and regulations issued by the National Bank of Cambodia. Under the 1991 law, an exchange allowance for travel of $3,000 a person is granted at the official rate for Cambodians going abroad for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay; in practice, however, there are no limits on the use of foreign exchange for travel abroad. Amounts in excess of this limit may be approved by the National Bank. There are no officially established limits on other in- visible payments. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 87 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most products by registered trading companies may be undertaken without a license. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state- owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed timber and logs. Exports of rice, gems, and sawed timber are subject to a quota. There are also export restrictions on gold, silver, and antiquities. All proceeds from exports by state- owned enterprises must be repatriated and sold to or deposited with the Foreign Trade Bank of Cam- bodia (FTBC); private sector entities must repatriate and hold export proceeds in accounts with com- mercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received by private sec- tor entities are not subject to the repatriation or sur- render requirement. Proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises are subject to the same regulations as those governing proceeds from merchandise exports. Capital Borrowing abroad is permitted only with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Foreign investors are required to submit investment applications to the Cambodia Investment Board at the Council for Development of Cambodia for re- view and approval. Foreign direct investment in- flows must also be approved by the Cambodian Investment Board and are governed by the Law on Investment. A recently adopted investment law eliminated foreign exchange restrictions applying to investors in Cambodia. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement September 1. The spread between the official rate and the market rate was narrowed to less than 1 percent. Capital August 4. An investment law eliminating foreign exchange restrictions applying to investors in Cambodia was adopted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued li- cense domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Operations Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior au- thorization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or more than nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. lfThe CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, the Postal Ad- ministration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export li- censes are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Nonresidents are allowed to maintain bank accounts in convert- ible francs. These accounts, held mainly by diplo- matic missions, international institutions, and their nonresident employees, may be credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign currencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident con- vertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by resi- dents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) pur- chases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to residents in accordance with ex- change regulations. Nonresidents may not maintain 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 89 accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in for- eign currency in Cameroon. Residents are not per- mitted to maintain accounts abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for ecological, health, or safety reasons. Surcharges apply to im- ports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) and im- ports of maize meal, trailers, iron reinforcing bars, and cement. All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if the goods are not considered to be in transit. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import deposits are permitted if underlying con- tracts stipulate them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declara- tion and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be granted foreign exchange allow- ances subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these lim- its are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Min- istry of Finance is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment, other than banknotes, issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresi- dent traveler is not restricted, subject to documenta- tion that they were purchased with funds drawn from an account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; re- exportation above this ceiling requires documenta- tion showing either the importation of foreign ban- knotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and tax pay- ments. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of up to 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon, de- pending on the number of dependents abroad, is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Ex- cept in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily who have been insured previously, res- idents and nonresidents are not allowed to contract insurance abroad when the same services are avail- able in Cameroon. However, payments of premi- ums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions valued at CFAF 500,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries must be repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within a month of the due date, and foreign currency receipts must be surren- dered within a month of collection. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring into Cameroon any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Ac- count Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CAMEROON Capital Capital transactions between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control. Outward capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, ex- cept for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Provided they have met their tax obligations, emi- grants to countries outside the Operations Account Area may transfer abroad their full savings. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the re- investment of undistributed profits or do not ex- ceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation in- volves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as consti- tuting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Cameroonian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of each oper- ation. (Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior au- thorization from the Minister of Finance and must Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from au- thorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Camer- oonian Government, and (2) shares similar to secu- rities, when their issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. All foreign securities and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an autho- rized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either be- tween Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au- thorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and re- quire only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not ex- ceed two years and the rate of interest does not ex- ceed 6 percent a year. The Investment Code of November 1990 aims to promote the development of natural resources, job creation, production, and exportation (especially of manufactures), and the transfer of appropriate tech- nology. Under the code, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the develop- ment of natural resources, and further benefits are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 91 provided to enterprises qualifying for inclusion in one of the five regimes described below. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion from export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 percent of the value of exports from the exporter's taxable income. In addition, firms are exempted un- der certain conditions from all duties and purchase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs pro- duced in Cameroon or the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and foreign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment maintenance, indus- trial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor intensive (de- fined as one job for each CFAF 10 million invest- ment), export-oriented firms, and firms that use domestic natural resources. During a three-year in- stallation phase, firms under this regime are entitled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to certain fiscal ex- emptions. During a five-year exploitation phase, certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (defined as one job for each CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and whose level of Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The stra- tegic regime applies to enterprises declared strategic by the Cameroonian authorities and fulfilling cer- tain other conditions. This regime provides the same benefits as those under the basic regime during the installation phase, which is five years, and the same benefits as those available under the small and medium-size enterprise regime during the exploita- tion phase, which is 12 years. (4) The free trade zone regime is available to enterprises devoted exclu- sively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agreements. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 percent or that satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addi- tion, these firms are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10,1990 provides that Cameroonian interests should hold at least one- third of the share capital of each banking institu- tion. This law also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the mone- tary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the ap- proval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is nor- mally given only to industrial users, including jewel- ers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which autho- rizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic in- dustrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and the Minister of Finance, although such authori- zation is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments January 24. All quantitative restrictions were eliminated. The range of tariff rates was changed to 5-30 percent from 0-200 percent. Duties from the member countries of UDEAC were set at 20 percent of the corresponding rate applicable to imports from other countries. September 1. A 30 percent temporary import sur- charge was introduced on maize meal. November 1. A 20 percent temporary import sur- charge on trailers, iron reinforcing bars, and cement was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CAMEROON Capital January 24. The Investment Code was revised to withdraw the exemption from customs duties on imports and from recording taxes that was granted to foreign firms, and this benefit was replaced by a 50 percent reduction in the corporate profit tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; how- ever, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1994 was Can$1.4028 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly deter- mined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25,1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also is- sue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Canada notified the Fund on July 23,1992 that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro). Canada has also imposed restrictions on finan- cial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with UN Resolution No. 942. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for only a few agri- cultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natu- ral gas, and material and equipment for the produc- tion or use of atomic energy. In 1994, permits were required for the importation of controlled sub- stances classified as dangerous drugs and firearms for military use. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered with it. Import permits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. Permits are rarely issued for some agricultural items, such as butter and milk, while other agricul- tural items may be subject to a quota. Commercial imports of certain products, primarily margarine and used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited. However, the pro- hibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States was phased out over a five-year period that began in 1989, and the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico will be phased out by January 1, 2019. The prohibition on imports of margarine expired on January 1, 1995. Imports of some clothing and certain textile prod- ucts, usually in the form of bilateral restraint agree- ments (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the Multifiber Arrangement negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), are also subject to quanti- tative restrictions. As a result of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agreement, Can- ada has agreed to replace all agricultural import re- strictions with tariff rate quotas and to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round. These changes will be effective on either January 1,1995 or August 1,1995 depending on the product. In accordance with the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on textiles and cloth- ing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and clothing will be liberalized in stages over a ten- year period beginning January 1,1995. Exports and Export Proceeds To support their export sales, exporters may have access to financing and insurance services provided by the Export Development Corporation. The surrender of proceeds from exports is not re- quired and exchange receipts are freely disposable. The principal legal instrument governing export controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the Export Control List and Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, main- tain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 CANADA items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Industrial List, and the Interna- tional Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained over a broad range of items controlled for nonproliferation purposes (chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, the following countries are on the Area Control List: Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for or exchange receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tion, transportation, fishery, and energy sectors. As a result of the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada has eliminated the few remaining restrictions in the financial services sector. Specifically, the 10 percent individual, and 25 percent collective, limitations on the foreign ownership of Canadian-controlled, fed- erally regulated financial institutions, and the 12 percent asset ceiling on the size of the foreign bank sector in Canada were eliminated. This be- came effective on December 15,1994, when amend- ments to the Bank Act, the Trust and Loan Companies Act, the Insurance Companies Act, the Cooperative Insurance Companies Act, and the In- vestment Companies Act received Royal Assent as part of the World Trade Organization Agreement Implementation Act. These restrictions had already been lifted in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In addition, under the provi- sions of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign in- vestments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review requirements. By the end of 1994, only direct acquisitions of busi- nesses with assets exceeding Can$160 million were subject to review. As a result of NAFTA, indirect ac- quisitions are no longer subject to review. This pro- vision was multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round results. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and in- vestments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sectors may be reviewed. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test proving that they will yield a net benefit to Canada. There are no controls on outward direct investment or on inward or outward portfolio investment. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial im- ports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Yio and V* of an ounce of gold, respectively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing Vi of an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 1. The North American Free Trade Agree- ment between Canada, the United States, and Mex- ico came into force. NAFTA replaced the Canada- United States Free Trade Agreement and extended the benefits of the agreement to Mexico. December 11. Chile was invited by Canada and the other two NAFTA signatories to join in pre- accession negotiations with a view to having Chile become the fourth member of the trade agreement. December 15. The Canadian Parliament passed an act to implement the agreement establishing the World Trade Organization, which took effect on January 1,1995 implementing Canada's obligations resulting from the Uruguay Round. Imports and Import Payments During 1994, the injury findings in respect of sour cherries, delicious apples, and malt beverages (beer) imported from the United States ended, as did the undertakings in respect of aluminum wedge clamps and steel grinding balls from the United States. The injury finding in respect of the dumping of electric motors also expired. There were injury findings in respect of the dumping of carbon steel plate, 12-gauge shotgun shells and cor- rosion-resistant steel, each from various countries, as well as an injury finding in respect of the subsi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 95 dizing and the dumping of black granite memorials from India. March 31. The Canadian General Preferential Tar- iff was extended to June 30, 2004, and a review of the scheme was announced. May 6. The 25 percent surtax on boneless beef lev- ied on imports of more than 72,021 metric tons from countries other than the United States and Mexico was liberalized and would be levied on imports of more than 85,021 metric tons. October 6. Certain cuts of boneless beef were ex- cluded from the application of the 25 percent surtax on imports from countries other than the United States and Mexico. December 31. The 25 percent surtax on certain im- ports of boneless beef lapsed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies issued by the nine countries (other than the United States) that are the most important suppliers of imports and emigrant remittances. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 80.85 and C.V. Esc 81.42, respectively, per US$1. Most dealings in foreign ex- change with the general public are conducted by the two commercial banks (BCA and CECV), which are allowed net foreign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of US$1.5 million and US$1 million, re- spectively. In addition to the two commercial banks, hotels and tourist agencies are authorized to buy for- eign exchange from the public. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). Certain categories of imports, exports, and re-exports exceeding specified limits are subject to licensing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Export proceeds must be repatriated in convert- ible currencies. Cape Verde maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements with Angola and Sao Tom£ and Principe, both of which are currently inoperative. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit ac- counts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exclu- sively with foreign exchange. Foreign enterprises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit ac- counts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign ex- change deposit accounts, (2) savings-credit deposit accounts, and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde es- cudos. These accounts may be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000 and not involv- ing payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to the preregistration require- ment. The importation of maize, rice, sugar, and cooking oil is a government monopoly. Licenses, which are issued by the General Direc- torate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Li- censes are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development- related equipment. The Ministry of Tourism, Indus- try, and Commerce establishes a list of products for which imports are subject to a global annual quota. This list includes mostly locally produced food items and beverages, (e.g., fish, bread, tomatoes, ba- nanas, cereals, salt, beer, and soft drinks), with some items subject to seasonal quotas (e.g., potatoes, on- ions, and poultry). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 100,000. Na- tionals of Cape Verde traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 97 Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are al- lowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 100,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the du- ration of each trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of for- eign currency that varies according to medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency but may re-export only up to the amount of currency they declared upon entry. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months of the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a commercial bank. The importation of domestic cur- rency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be ap- proved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limi- tation. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Foreign direct investments are allowed to be repatriated (within 30 days of submission of applications to the Bank of Cape Verde). Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the mone- tary authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500 are subject to licensing and to approval by the central bank. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 100 per F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, ex- cept those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central Afri- can Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). All pay- ments to these countries may, therefore, be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated ap- proval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) of the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lending abroad; the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in the Central African Republic; and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC,2 to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administra- tion. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign ac- counts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign ac- counts in francs. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank- notes received by the foreign correspondents of au- thorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments No imports from any country are subject to li- censing requirements or quotas. Imports of firearms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Import decla- rations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import li- ^The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 99 cense entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to au- thorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than ban- knotes. The allowances for travel to countries out- side the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in ex- cess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Re- turning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted; however, documentation is required that such means of payment have been pur- chased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re- exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of for- eign banknotes above these ceilings requires docu- mentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trav- eler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 90 days after the ar- rival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than French francs or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. If payment is re- ceived in foreign currency, it must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Gov- ernment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Direc- tor of the Budget. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in the Central African Republic. These controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC controls over the sale or introduction of foreign se- curities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the rein- vestment of undistributed profits. The full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the decla- ration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be de- clared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previ- ously been approved as constituting a direct invest- ment in the Central African Republic. All direct investments, whether Central African Republic in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in the Cen- tral African Republic, that are made or liquidated must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered direct in- vestment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in the Central African Repub- lic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- 3Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. lie, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Af- rican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans con- stituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. Loans re- ferred to under (4) and each repayment must be re- ported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central Af- rican Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authori- zation, and each repayment, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and Decision No. 18/65 of December 14,1965, of the Central African Customs and Economic Union, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the importation of specified equipment. In addi- tion, certain enterprises are exempt from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C) that allow fiscal and other privileges to be accorded to firms investing ei- ther in new enterprises or in the expansion of exist- ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 101 commercial sector. Requests for approval of prefer- ential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is Chairman of the Investment Commission that considers the application. If the Commission gives a positive decision, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Minis- ters. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree from the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Di- rectors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an au- thorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior au- thorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Administration of Control May 13. The Ministry of Finance issued a regula- tion that brought exchange regulations of the Cen- tral African Republic in line with those adopted by the other BEAC countries (following the suspension of the repurchase of CFA banknotes in circulation outside the BEAC zone). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quo- tations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the ac- count of the Treasury, for students' bursaries, and to the member countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and made only through authorized banks, using bank checks. Pay- ments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior ap- proval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Con- trol Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relat- ing to countries outside the Operations Account lrrhe CFA franc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Camer- oon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Area must be made through authorized banks. Im- port and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion. The Minis- try of Finance supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Arrears are maintained with respect to debt- service payments on public debt. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on regulations applied in France. The repurchase of banknotes issued by the BEAC and in circulation outside the BEAC area is sus- pended; BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and the original member states of the EU (other than France) may be made freely. All imports from non-EU countries outside the Operations Account Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. This program and the amount of foreign ex- change required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promo- tion on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 103 The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EU countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries judged to have ab- normal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EU countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, and other countries. Specified goods from certain neigh- boring countries not belonging to the Operations Account Area, up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year, may be imported through compensation transactions by an importer. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of ciga- rettes has been suspended until further notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary ex- change, provided that shipping documents are sub- mitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Only a simple declaration is required for transfers to countries outside the BEAC area by residents not exceeding CFAF 500,000; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior autho- rization must be obtained from the competent au- thorities. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks are required to execute promptly all duly documented transfer orders, and in any case to dispatch cable transfers within 24 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of bona fide income accru- ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, nonresidents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account Area countries for less than a year) are not permitted to send transfers to countries that are not franc zone members without prior au- thorization from the competent authorities. They may, however, receive transfers from abroad. Insurance on all imports to Chad with values ex- ceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be ar- ranged with local insurance companies by the importer. The exportation (and importation) of banknotes issued by the BEAC to areas outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Travelers—civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc.—must use the follow- ing payments instruments: foreign exchange, trav- eler's checks; bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. This allocation can be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the franc zone, the exchange allocation shall de- pend on the type of travel (as indicated below) and is subject to prior authorization from the relevant administrative authorities. This allocation can be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Residents traveling outside the franc zone for tourism may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a day up to a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip a person over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents traveling to coun- tries outside the franc zone for tourism may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip. Students or trainees leaving for the first time or re- turning to their normal place of study in countries outside the franc zone may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to a three-month scholarship plus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million. Civil servants and government employees traveling on official business to coun- tries outside the franc zone may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to the allowances stipulated for such travel. However, civil servants and govern- ment employees may obtain an exchange allocation on the same basis as tourists only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 100,000, up to a limit of CFAF 2 million. Resi- dents traveling to countries outside the franc zone for medical treatment may obtain an exchange allo- cation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a day up to a limit of CFAF 2.5 million. Residents traveling to countries outside the franc zone for reasons other than those listed above (sporting events, participa- tion in expositions, organization of fairs, participa- tion in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc.) shall be granted exchange allocations on the same basis as those traveling for tourism. Resident and nonresident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 CHAD travelers may import into BEAC area countries an unlimited amount of coins and banknotes other than those denominated in CFA francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to non-EU countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified ex- ports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compen- sation transactions. Exports of cotton are the mo- nopoly Of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if re- ceived in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an unlim- ited amount of franc zone banknotes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct in- vestment; and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of for- eign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Fi- nance, unless they take the form of a mixed-econ- omy enterprise; the full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be re- ported to the Minister within 30 days of each opera- tion. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au- thorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to se- curities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this au- thorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the fi- nancing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 105 countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount of the loan outstanding does not exceed CFAF10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7 percent, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authori- zation and each repayment must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this au- thorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans when the total amount of these loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to un- der (2) that are free of authorization and each re- payment must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Commer- cial banks must maintain a specified minimum amount of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on De- cember 9, 1987, any domestic or foreign enterprise established in Chad is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified im- ports and exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The code provides for four categories of en- terprises that may be eligible to receive various forms of preferential treatment (including certain tax privileges). Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. With the recommen- dation of this commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold un- worked gold without specific authorization. Im- ports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from both the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Geologi- cal and Mining Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this re- quirement are (1) imports and exports by or on be- half of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Its external (reference) value is pegged to a fixed basket of currencies consisting of 0.45 U.S. dollar, 0.4691 deutsche mark, and 24.6825 Japanese yen; the weight of each currency in the basket is based on its relative importance in Chile's international transactions. The external value of the basket is adjusted daily on the basis of the exchange rate relationships between the currencies included in the basket and the differential between the domes- tic and the foreign rates of inflation. The Central Bank of Chile conducts foreign exchange transac- tions with the official exchange market entities within margins of 10 percent around the reference rate. On December 31, 1994, the reference rate was Ch$419.62 per US$1 and the interbank rate was Ch$404.09 per US$1. The official foreign ex- change market consists of commercial banks, exchange houses, and other entities licensed by the Central Bank. Fifty percent of proceeds from ex- ports of goods and services; debt-service payments; remittances of dividends and profits; and autho- rized capital transactions, including loan receipts, must be transacted through this market. In addi- tion, there is an informal exchange market through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the official foreign exchange market are al- lowed to take place. In both markets, economic agents are free to negotiate exchange rates. The banks are authorized to sell their excess for- eign exchange holdings to other banks. Foreign ex- change may be bought for the repayment of capital or interest abroad due within 90 days if these debts are properly registered at the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides an exchange subsidy on the following service payments on some debts con- tracted before August 6,1982 (the original amount of the debt was about $8 billion):1 (1) payments to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) payments abroad on debt obligations registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes indexed to inflation with a mini- mum maturity of six years and an interest rate of ^his exchange subsidy was being phased out with the repay- ment of the covered debt and the fact that the differential be- tween the official reference rate and the preferential rate became negative during the fourth quarter of 1994. 3 percent. On December 31, 1994, the subsidized rate was Ch$40.55 above the official reference rate. As of the end of 1994, only those debtors whose ob- ligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985 have had access to this subsidized rate. However, the actual amount for which this ex- change rate was being applied at the end of 1994 was nil, due to the bankruptcy of many of the af- fected debtors and to the fact that the official refer- ence rate was lower than the preferential rate. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for implement- ing exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for supervising copper exports and all imports of the copper industry in accordance with general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the excep- tion of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the Cen- tral Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions, through the official foreign exchange market, is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers meeting the documentary require- ments are granted access to the official foreign ex- change market, regardless of the terms of the obligation involved, at least 30 days after the obli- gation's expiration date as it appears in the Informe de Importation. Imports are subject to a uniform tar- iff rate of 11 percent. A few items are exempt from the general tariff regime, including items on which tariffs have been negotiated with LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 107 Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price must remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, to imports of certain products that are subsidized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances are granted for certain transactions; others must take place through the in- formal exchange market. Authorization is provided upon presentation of the appropriate documents. The limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is US$3,000 a trip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$5,000 a trip to other countries. Higher amounts for travel other than for purposes of tourism may be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank upon presentation of adequate justifica- tion. Travelers may also purchase additional foreign currency in the informal exchange market. Residents may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange up to US$3,000 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines and books, reg- istrations for seminars, social security payments, medical treatment payments, or remittances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad; for all these transactions, the appropriate documents must be presented. Remittances of earnings by for- eign workers must be channeled through the infor- mal exchange market. Remittances of profits and dividends earned from foreign direct investments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special provisions for exports of do- mestic banknotes. Insurance activities within the country are lim- ited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All products may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered through commercial banks, which are re- quired to inform the Central Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all spot foreign exchange proceeds from exporters. Exporters are al- lowed to retain, and freely dispose of, up to 50 percent of export proceeds, with a cumulative limit of US$50 million during a 12-month period. Windfall receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be deposited in a spe- cial foreign currency account at the Central Bank, and withdrawals from this account are permitted only under certain circumstances. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 270 days of ship- ment and surrendered within 11 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 90 days of repatriation if they are held as foreign exchange deposits with domestic banks. Repatriation periods may be extended for certain products. Exporters of a limited number of products (ap- proximately 6 percent of the country's annual exports) have the option of taking a tax reimburse- ment (within 120 days of surrendering the pro- ceeds) in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme; alternatively, exporters of these products may avail themselves of the provi- sions of Law No. 19.024, under which they may ob- tain refunds of the duties paid on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1990 were equal to or less than US$5 million. The list of eligi- ble products is reviewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to adjustment each year. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Royalties and copyright fees, com- missions, proceeds from insurance, and other bene- fits related to foreign trade are subject to the same surrender requirement. The proceeds from family remittances, other commissions, or the surplus for- eign exchange from travel allocations are not re- quired to be surrendered. There are no special provisions for imports of do- mestic banknotes. Capital All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of ex- isting credits by commercial banks requires prior registration at, or approval from, the Central Bank; exceptions are lines of credit of up to one-year ma- turity with foreign correspondents. Short-term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings that do not require its approval. All foreign borrow- ings, except for credits that are provided directly to Chilean exporters by foreign importers or by for- eign suppliers to Chilean importers, are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; this requirement may be satisfied by lodging a deposit in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank without interest or by entering into a special repurchase agreement with the Cen- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 CHILE tral Bank that effectively imposes a cost equivalent to the interest forgone. The length of the period during which the reserve requirement must be held in the Central Bank is one year for loans and bonds. Credit lines and deposits must also satisfy the 30 percent reserve requirement, which is based on the average monthly outstanding balance. Credits granted by foreign commercial banks to Chilean commercial banks as part of restructuring packages are exempt from the reserve requirement. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment: (1) Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of for- eign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks. Although there is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrow- ing, the 30 percent reserve requirement against ex- ternal credits entering under Chapter XIV must be retained for one year. Repatriation is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule estab- lished at the time of registration. Accelerated pay- ments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. Since June 1990, under Chap- ter XXVI of Title I, which refers to American Depos- itory Receipts (ADRs), individuals and legal entities that are domiciled and resident abroad and that meet certain conditions have been permitted to re- mit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of regis- tered corporations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. Chilean enterprises and banks were authorized under Chapter XIV Regulations on May 13, 1992 to issue bonds in for- eign markets. As of April 15,1994, nonfinancial en- terprises with a credit rating from an international rating company that is equal to or better than that assigned to Chile can issue bonds with a minimum value of US$25 million. Issues of bonds by banks are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In accordance with Chapter XXVI regula- tions, Chilean enterprises and banks are also autho- rized to issue ADRs. Requirements as of Sep- tember 15,1994 are that (a) the issue be equal to at least US$25 million; and (b) the company be rated at least BBB+ by two international rating agencies. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7,1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a special re- gime for long-term capital investment. Authoriza- tion to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract that stipulates that capital trans- fers to Chile will not normally exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. In- vestments of less than US$5 million may be ap- proved by the Executive Vice President of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but spe- cific agreements in this regard may be included in the above-mentioned investment contract. Since March 1993, capital may be repatriated after one year unless specified otherwise in the investment contract. Foreign investors may opt for one of two income tax systems. Both systems are based on the regular Chilean corporate income tax of 15 percent on profit repatriation. Under the first system, a fixed rate of 42 percent (which includes the corpo- rate income tax of 15 percent) is guaranteed over a period of 10 years. Alternatively, they may select a tax system that is similar to that which is applied to domestic investors. This system applies a 35 per- cent rate on profits before tax and deducts from it the 15 percent corporate income tax. The first sys- tem results in an effective rate of 38 percent on gross profits (before tax) and the second system in an effective rate of 35 percent 6n gross profits. Any foreign credits involved must be on financial terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile before the promulgation of Decree- Law No. 600 and that is not subject to that law con- tinues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under presidential decree; rights and responsibilities under such a de- cree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase abroad and repatriation of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments at a discount. Eligible instruments are defined as exter- nal debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year when the debtor is either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Development Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institu- tion. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct invest- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 109 ment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon ap- proval from the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the intermedia- tion of a financial institution; special regulations ap- ply to the repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Under Chapter XIX, foreign investors may sell their investments to domestic investors after paying a fee to the Central Bank. The last operation of debt conversion under these schemes took place in 1991. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the con- version into peso assets (without remittance rights) of debt purchased abroad by residents and nonresi- dents at a discount with foreign exchange not ob- tained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guaranteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. (5) Chapter XXVII of Title I of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in August 1990, stipulates that foreign capital investment funds may have access to the of- ficial exchange market for repatriation abroad of imported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign in- vestment activities under certain conditions. Foreign currency deposits in banks are also subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent, based on the average monthly balance. Banks may sell foreign ex- change using their term deposits in foreign exchange. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely un- dertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, in- cluding registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds April 15. The proportion of export proceeds ex- empted from surrender requirements was increased to 15 percent from 10 percent. The maximum amount exempted was increased to US$10 million from US$5 million per exporter in any 12-month period. The period during which foreign exchange must be repatriated was extended to 180 days from 150 days. September 9. The proportion of export proceeds exempted from surrender requirements was in- creased to 25 percent from 15 percent. The maxi- mum amount exempted was increased to US$15 million from US$10 million per exporter in any 12- month period. The period during which foreign ex- change must be repatriated was extended to 210 days from 180 days. November 30. The proportion of export proceeds exempted from surrender requirements was in- creased to 50 percent from 25 percent. The maxi- mum amount exempted was increased to US$50 million from US$15 million per exporter in any 12- month period. The period during which foreign ex- change must be repatriated was extended to 270 days from 210 days. Capital April 15. The requirement that nonfinancial enter- prises be rated A by the National Risk Classification Commission in order to be eligible to issue bonds in foreign markets or to issue American Depository Receipts (ADRs) was replaced with the requirement that they be rated BBB+. The minimum amount for each ADR issue or band issue was lowered to US$25 million from US$50 million for these issuers. The maximum amount that pension funds, insur- ance companies, and mutual funds are allowed to invest abroad was raised to 4 percent from 3 percent of their portfolio. September 9. The issuance of ADRs but not of bonds by banks was simplified: the minimum amount for each issue was lowered to US$25 mil- lion from US$50 million, and the requirement that the issuing bank be rated A by the National Risk Classification Commission was replaced by the re- quirement that it be rated BBB-i- by two interna- tional rating agencies. September 29. Rules regulating investments by banks and financial institutions in offshore financial institutions were established. November 30. The ceiling on foreign exchange po- sitions held by commercial banks was eliminated, and all reserve requirements on foreign borrowing were required to be held solely in U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of March 33,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, the external value of which is deter- mined in the interbank market.1 At the start of each trading day, the People's Bank of China (PBC) an- nounces a reference rate based on the weighted av- erage of the buying and selling rates against the U.S. dollar during the previous day's trading. Daily movement of the exchange rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar is limited to 0.3 percent on ei- ther side of the reference rate. The PBC publishes the middle rates of the renminbi against 21 convert- ible currencies, except the U.S. dollar, on the basis of the exchange rate of the currencies concerned in the international markets.2 Based on the middle rate published by the PBC, the designated banks then quote their buying and selling rates to their customers within a range of 0.25 percent. On De- cember 31,1994, the middle market rate of the ren- mimbi against the U.S. dollar was Y 8.4462 per US$1. Administration of Control The PBC exercises central bank functions and control over foreign exchange; the State Adminis- tration of Exchange Control (SAEC), as a govern- ment institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations and for administering the foreign exchange market in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub-bureaus in the provinces, main munic- ipalities, autonomous regions, and special eco- nomic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is China's principal foreign exchange bank. Other banks and financial institutions, including affiliates of nonresi- dent banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than two hundred institutions are authorized to aOn April 1,1994, the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (CFETS) in Shanghai—a nationally integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading—became operational. At present, 22 foreign exchange trading centers in major cities—ac- counting for the bulk of all foreign exchange transactions—are electronically linked to the CFETS. To trade in the system, finan- cial institutions must become members of the CFETS. Desig- nated domestic financial institutions are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account. Other financial institu- tions, including branches of foreign banks, may trade foreign ex- change as brokers on behalf of their customers. 2This practice was discontinued effective April 1,1995. handle foreign exchange transactions. Individuals may hold foreign exchange but generally may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Financial institutions may hold foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency As of the end of 1994, an operative bilateral pay- ments agreement was maintained with Cuba.3 Un- less there are specific regulations, the currencies used in transactions are determined by the terms of the respective contracts. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 remaining in China for a short time may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institu- tions. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs), including joint ventures, may also open foreign exchange cur- rent accounts and use them to make payments abroad. In addition, the PBC has specified other cat- egories of foreign exchange for which domestic es- tablishments can open foreign exchange accounts with designated banks by presenting the certificates of permit issued by the SAEC. Branches of foreign banks and other financial institutions may grant loans in foreign exchange and accept foreign cur- rency deposits from FFEs and enterprises approved by the SAEC. Individuals may open resident foreign currency savings accounts with authorized banks and may withdraw foreign currency from, or deposit it to, such accounts without restriction. Imports and Exports Primary responsibility for formulating foreign trade policies and ensuring the implementation of regulations and policy measures rests with the Min- istry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports.5 3An inoperative bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mongolia. Nonresidents include Chinese working overseas and resi- dents of foreign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao re- gions. Diplomatic representatives are also included. 5MOFTEC itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts, the Commission on Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ill MOFTEC does not engage in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other entities licensed by MOFTEC to conduct foreign trade. At the end of 1994, about 4,000 FTCs were in operation. In addition, some 60,000 FFEs are permitted to conduct international trade directly. All enterprises other than registered FTCs must obtain approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with MOFTEC authorization, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce, to engage in foreign trade. All foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatri- ated and must be sold to designated banks, except those of FFEs and those approved by the SAEC. FFEs are allowed to retain all their foreign exchange and to sell or purchase foreign exchange in the swap centers. In principle, beginning in 1995, the SAEC has been conducting annual examinations for FFEs. The FFEs passing the annual examinations need no further approval from the SAEC to conduct foreign exchange transactions. The purpose of ap- proval is to ensure that export and contractual obli- gations are met. In practice, SAEC approval for purchase transactions was quite liberal in 1994. Authorized local banks provide foreign exchange for imports when import contracts and commercial documentation are presented. Import licenses, when required, are examined by the banks. Resi- dents may not pay for imports with local currency, except in border trade. Imports into China are classified into two catego- ries—restricted imports and unrestricted imports.6 The importation of products on the restricted list is controlled through licensing requirements or quo- tas. The importation of the following products is subject to canalization (i.e., restricted to designated FTCs): wheat, chemical fertilizer, crude oil, oil prod- ucts, rubber, steel, timber, plywood, polyester syn- thetic fibers, tobacco and its products, cotton, and wool. Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited. In addition, the importation and expor- tation of weapons, ammunition and explosives, ra- dio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency exceeding Y 6,000, manuscripts, printed and re- corded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and exports require prior inspection before they can be 6At the end of 1994,49 items were on the restricted list. released by customs at the port of entry or exit. Ex- ports of specified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities as a means of quality control. Controls in the form of registration for surveillance purposes are exercised on the im- portation of machinery and electric equipment to monitor the equilibrium of supply and demand. The customs regulations in force are the Customs Law of China and the Regulations on Import and Export Tariff of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: general and preferential. General rates apply to imports originating in the countries or regions with which China has not con- cluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tariff clauses; preferential rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded such treaties and agreements. The duties are calculated on the basis of the transac- tion value of imported goods. At the end of 1994, the average unweighted tariff rate was 36.4 percent. Imports into Tibet are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the State Council. The tariff applies to goods imported for use in Tibet on a nondiscriminatory basis and irre- spective of their origin. It does not apply to imports into Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the lug- gage carried by travelers, which are subject to the regular Chinese tariff. Domestic enterprises are liable to a product tax and a value-added tax on imports of certain prod- ucts into China; FFEs are liable to a consolidated in- dustrial and commercial tax. Since January 1, 1994, a uniform value-added tax has been applied to both domestic and imported products; the relevant pro- visions are contained in Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Value-Added Tax (December 13, 1993), and Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Consumption Tax (December 13,1993). Before 1991, special economic zones were set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Zhuhai, and Hainan. A special development area was estab- lished in Pudong (Shanghai), and economic and technological development zones were established in 14 designated coastal cities. In 1992, approval was granted for the establishment of a large num- ber of similar zones in selected inland cities and border regions that have recently been declared open to foreign trade and investment. Foreigners, Chinese working overseas, and Chinese from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan Province of China are permitted to invest in and open businesses in these zones and areas either through wholly owned ven- tures or joint ventures with Chinese investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Equipment and machinery or parts and compo- nents thereof, and other means of production im- ported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are ex- empt from import duties. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports, primarily raw materials and food products. At the end of 1994, 114 product items were subject to ex- port-licensing requirements or quotas, and 47 prod- uct items were subject to export duties. A portion of output of goods not produced in adequate quanti- ties but for which a strong demand exists in the for- eign market is set aside for export. Exports of certain products, such as valuable cultural relics, rare books, and animals, seeds, plants, precious metals, and artifacts made from precious metals are prohibited. Export quotas for certain products are allocated, on an experimental basis, through a public bidding system.7 Successful bidders are required to guaran- tee maximum export value by offering higher benchmark export prices. During 1994, 24 items subject to export quotas were distributed under the bidding system. Purchases of foreign exchange other than by for- eign-funded enterprises for trade (and trade- related) transactions do not require the approval of theSAEC. Foreign exchange for trade may be purchased from designated banks, provided that the importer has a valid import contract and a notice of payment from a foreign financial institution; for imports sub- ject to licensing, quotas, or registration procedures, presentation of the certificates concerned is also required. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange may be purchased to pay for trade-related services upon presentation of con- tracts or payment notices. The remittance of profits and dividends earned on foreign direct investment is not restricted after applicable taxes have been paid. After-tax profits of foreign funded enterprises may be remitted in accordance with foreign ex- change regulations; such remittances should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the 7Three types of bidding are conducted under the system: (1) "negotiated" bidding is applied to products whose exportation is to be balanced by the state; (2) "invitation" bidding is applied to raw materials produced in geographically concentrated areas; and (3) "oriented" bidding is applied to products that are manu- factured in geographically concentrated areas and whose export channels are limited. Only one type of bidding is conducted for a product in any calendar year. joint venture. If the outstanding balance of such an account is not sufficient, FFEs may buy foreign ex- change from foreign exchange adjustment centers. Foreign exchange needed for nontrade and non- commercial payments by budgeted organizations, institutions, and social bodies may be purchased from the BOC, upon presenting the Application for Nontrade Payments, at the exchange rate of the day of purchase and within the limits specified by the SAEC. Off-budget domestic establishments may purchase foreign exchange for nontrade and non- commercial payments from designated banks by presenting the Exchange Sale Instruction issued by the SAEC. Chinese residents wishing to spend money on travel abroad or remit money abroad may apply to the designated banks. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting Chinese residents' par- ents, spouses, or children outside China, the resi- dents may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presentation of documentary ver- ification. In general, if permission is granted to travel abroad, Chinese residents are allowed to take a reasonable amount of their own foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence. There is no tax on travel. Chinese residents who re- tire and emigrate are normally permitted to receive their pensions abroad, but transfers of proceeds from the sale of their assets in China are limited. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is applied to foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the 14 open coastal cities and the newly opened inland and border cities. Enterprises, except for FFEs, must sell their for- eign exchange earnings from invisible transactions to an authorized bank. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from Hong Kong and Macao to Chi- nese residents may be retained and used to open a savings account at an authorized bank or sold for renminbi at the rate quoted by the banks. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immigrants or return- ing Chinese before they become residents may be retained. The following must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad: all foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents working abroad, in Hong Kong, or in Macao; or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums. Individuals may retain or deposit exchange receipts with designated banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 113 Foreign staff members and employees of FFEs, as well as those from Hong Kong and Macao,8may re- mit their salaries and other income earned in China after paying taxes and deducting their living ex- penses in China and after receiving approval from the relevant local authorities. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified as either "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.9 Plan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the government sector (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, and MOFTEC and enterprises under the MOFTEC's control) from foreign governments or in- ternational organizations and bilateral sources; (2) external borrowings of Chinese financial institu- tions; and (3) external borrowings of authorized Chinese enterprises. Nonplan borrowing includes (1) borrowing of FFEs; (2) branches of foreign banks operating in China; and (3) short-term trade credits. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project- executing agencies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFTEC, foreign trade corporations, and provin- cial governments) propose projects to the SPC. The proposals indicate the total amount of foreign ex- change needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which the loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFTEC, recommends to the State Council the over- all number of projects and their associated financ- ing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments re- quire the clearance of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from the World Bank are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Fi- nance; borrowing from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Asian Development Bank Including those employed by enterprises that have been es- tablished with capital provided by Chinese residing abroad. ^he SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and collecting statistics for China's external borrowing. It permits the BOC and other financial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for un- dertaking commercial borrowing to contract short-term loans up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, how- ever, are subject to prior approval from the SAEC. In August 1987, comprehensive regulations were issued requiring that all foreign borrowing be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to service their external debt obligations and will be sub- ject to other penalties. (ADB) are the responsibility of the PBC; and inter- governmental loans are the responsibility of MOFTEC. Local governments and enterprises usu- ally borrow through the BOC (or with its guaran- tee) or through specialized agencies, such as international trust and investment companies, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Resident organizations issuing securities for foreign exchange must be approved by the PBC. All medium- and long-term commercial borrow- ing abroad (including bond issues) under the plan requires prior approval from the SAEC on a case- by-case basis and may be conducted through au- thorized Chinese financial institutions. Borrowing quotas are allocated under the annual plan. The China International Trust and Investment Corpora- tion (CITIC) has been permitted, on an experimen- tal basis, to borrow abroad without first obtaining approval for each loan from the SAEC, as long as its outstanding debt is within the limits set by the State Council. Chinese financial institutions are permit- ted an annual ceiling by the SAEC for the balance outstanding on short-term loans. All foreign direct investment projects are, in prin- ciple, subject to the approval of MOFTEC. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign di- rect investment projects up to specified amounts. The policy with respect to foreign capital is de- signed both to make up for insufficient domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and wholly foreign- owned companies are required to balance their for- eign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to, and filed with, the SAEC.10 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresi- dent capital must be deposited with an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploi- tation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao. When a joint venture ceases operation, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of paid- in capital. 10To help individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises lacking sufficient foreign exchange through the foreign exchange adjustment centers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA The profits of joint ventures in special economic zones, the 14 coastal cities, the newly opened inland and border cities, and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other specified resources are sub- ject to tax at the rate of 15 percent. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profit-making years and allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ven- tures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be eco- nomically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a further 15- 30 percent reduction in income tax for another ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations with establishments in China that are engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business op- erations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax only on their net income from sources in China. Un- der the Income Tax Law of the Peoples' Republic of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises (July 1, 1991), a standard in- come tax rate of 33 percent is levied on all foreign investment enterprises and foreign enterprises; it consists of a 30 percent state income tax and a 3 percent local tax. Certain exemptions and reduc- tions from income tax are available in the special economic zones and other special open investment areas. Correspondingly, foreign state banks located in countries where income from interest on the de- posits and loans of China's state banks is exempt from income tax are also exempt from this Chinese tax. Foreign business without establishments in China are subject to a reduced tax of 10 percent (half the usual rate) on interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned un- der credit, trade, and leasing agreements made with Chinese companies and enterprises from 1983 to 1985 but only for the duration of the agreements. For fees collected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, environmental protec- tion, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, with the approval of the tax au- thorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent or waived for advanced technology provided on fa- vorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to designated banks, except for a portion that may be retained abroad as a working balance. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The official exchange rate and the swap market rate were unified at the prevailing swap market rate. Issuance of export retention quotas ceased except those for outstanding contracts. En- terprises were allowed to use their outstanding re- tention quotas to purchase foreign exchange at the official exchange rate prevailing on December 31, 1993. In addition, for undistributed quotas for which foreign exchange was sold before December 31, 1993, the distribution and deposit of quotas into relevant accounts were required to be completed before the end of January 1994. The re- demption of outstanding retention quotas was ter- minated at the end of 1994. January 1. Foreign Exchange Certificates (FECs) ceased to be issued. The existing FECs were with- drawn from circulation by the end of 1994 at the of- ficial exchange rate prevailing at the end of December 1993, and outstanding FECs were to be converted into foreign exchange only through the end of June 1995. April 1. The China Foreign Exchange Trade Sys- tem (CFETS) in Shanghai (an integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading) came into operation. Twenty-two cities were linked to this system by the end of 1994. Imports and Exports January 1. The foreign exchange retention system was abolished; enterprises were allowed to con- tinue to use outstanding retention quotas to pur- chase foreign exchange at the official exchange rate prevailing at the end of 1993. The priority import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 115 list was abolished. Foreign exchange for trade transactions could be purchased from designated banks, provided that the importer has a valid im- port contract and a notice of payment from a for- eign financial institution; for imports subject to licensing, quotas, or registration procedures, these documents would also be required. January 1. The mandatory import plan was abol- ished. The approval procedures for domestic enter- prises engaged in foreign trade were liberalized. February 1. A public bidding system for allocation of export quotas was introduced. Three types of bidding would be conducted under the system: (1) "negotiated" bidding applied to products whose ex- portation is to be balanced by the state; (2) "invita- tion" bidding applied to raw materials produced in geographically concentrated areas; and (3) "ori- ented" bidding applied to products manufactured in geographically concentrated areas and whose ex- port channels are limited. Only one type of bidding would be conducted for a product in any calendar year. Successful bidders would be required to guar- antee maximum profits by higher benchmark prices. May 1. Import-licensing requirements and quota controls on 195 items were eliminated. September 1. Import-licensing requirements and quota controls on 125 items were eliminated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 1. The requirement to obtain approval from the SAEC for the purchase of foreign exchange for trade and trade-related transactions (for domestic enterprises) and the priority list governing pur- chases of foreign exchange were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All foreign exchange operations take place at a mar- ket-determined exchange rate. The Superinten- dency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates.1 The Banco de la Republica conducts foreign exchange transac- tions only with the Ministry of Finance and autho- rized financial intermediaries and does not conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the nonbank private sector. The Banco de la Republica announces the upper and lower limits of a 14 per- centage point band ten days in advance for indica- tive purposes. The Banco de la Republica quotes buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies2 daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On De- cember 31, 1994, the representative market ex- change rate was Col$831.27 per US$1. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports (certifi- cados de reembolso tributarios or CERTs) granted at three different percentage rates; (2) an 8 percent sur- tax on remittances of earnings on existing non-oil foreign investments (to be reduced to 7 percent by 1996), a 15 percent surtax on remittances of earn- ings on existing foreign investments in the oil sector (to be reduced to 12 percent in 19%), and a 12 per- cent surtax on remittances of earnings from foreign investments made after 1993; and (3) a 10 percent withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers. The Govern- ment purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget under the same conditions as other authorized intermediaries.3 Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange rate risks in respect of foreign ex- lrThe representative market exchange rate is calculated as the weighted average of buying and selling rates, effected by foreign exchange market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions (Resolution No. 21 of September 3,1993). 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. ^he Banco de la Republica stands ready to sell foreign ex- change warrants (tfiulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) to public enterprises in the electric sector and to the National Fed- eration of Coffee Growers (Federaci6n National de Cafeteros) in accordance with the terms of Resolution No. 16/1991 of the change debts in convertible currencies registered at the Banco de la Republica on international markets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter for- ward swaps and options in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control All imports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). The Customs and Taxes Direction (DIAN), within the Ministry of Finance, enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsible for ap- plying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. The authorized foreign exchange inter- mediaries are commercial banks, financial corpora- tions, Financiera Energ£tica Nacional (FEN) and Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (BAN- COLDEX), and savings and loan corporations. Commercial banks are required to hold a net for- eign exchange position equivalent to at least 40 percent of their foreign exchange liabilities (out- standing at the end of June 1991). There are no reg- ulations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to authorized financial in- termediaries because they do not have access to the Banco de la Republica. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, IN- COMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export policy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and ad- ministers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Com- mittee on Commercial Practices, administers anti- dumping cases. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) issues directives to the Banco de la Republica. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 12 months and, within their period of validity, may be sold to the Banco de la Republica for pesos at the refer- ence market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the external loan but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of de- posit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued less 1 percentage point if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 12 months may be resold to the Banco de la Republica at the reference market rate on the last day of the twelfth month. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 117 Banco de la Republica and the National Planning Department concerning foreign direct investment in Colombia. The Banco de la Republica keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Co- lombia and of debts abroad and controls the move- ment of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends,, and commissions. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but residents and financial intermedi- aries are allowed to carry out operations in any cur- rency. Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has reciprocal credit agreements may be made through special ac- counts in accordance with the provisions of such agreements. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained within the framework of the multilat- eral clearing system of the Latin American Integra- tion Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with the People's Republic of China, Hungary, and the Russian Federation. Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign accounts, regis- tered at the Banco de la Republica (compensation accounts), to pay for imports, to invest abroad in fi- nancial assets, or to carry out any other foreign ex- change operations. Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the Banco de la Republica. Credit institutions are authorized to re- ceive short-term deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms; these deposits are freely available to the holders. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the Banco de la Republica. Imports and Import Payments Importers may obtain foreign exchange from the exchange market with exchange certificates pur- chased in the market or may purchase foreign ex- change directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from financial intermediaries. Import payments must be made within four months of the due date of payment indicated in the import registration form; otherwise, they are treated as debt (as dis- cussed below). Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring reg- istration only with INCOMEX;4 and (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license. Most imports are in the free-import regime, where there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA and members of the An- dean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing requirement consist of medicines and chemical products (30 tariff positions) and weapons and mu- nitions (39 tariff positions). A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchases of official foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, including imports of ma- chinery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports con- sist mainly of aid imports under grants and com- modities constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some public sec- tor agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for 6 months, ex- cept those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for 3 months, and those for capital goods, which are valid for 12 months. Import li- censes may be extended for only one period. The charge for import registration is Col$12,800. Im- ports of crude oil and petroleum products are ef- fected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles may be obtained through foreign exchange inter- mediaries or exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. All exchange proceeds from exports of goods that are repatriated must be surrendered to authorized financial inter- mediaries within six months or must be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the Banco de la Republica. However, exporters are permitted to re- imports or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500 are classified as minor imports and do not have to be registered with INCOMEX. All other imports are subject to registration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COLOMBIA tain their export proceeds abroad, in compensation accounts, to settle import payments, to invest in financial assets, to pay back debt, or to effect any other payment operation. In addition, foreign enter- prises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free trade areas are not required to sur- render their foreign exchange. On surrendering their export proceeds in the foreign exchange mar- ket, exporters of products other than coffee, petro- leum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the f.o.b. value surrendered. Three rates— 2.5 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent—are applied, depending on the product and the country of desti- nation; the rates are calculated on domestic value added. These certificates, which are freely negotia- ble and are quoted on the stock exchange, are ac- cepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the following reg- ulations: (1) a minimum surrender price is fixed on the basis of the international market prices; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution, which is de- termined by the difference between the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic buying price for coffee intended for export; (3) exporters pay a 6.4 percent tax on surrendered export proceeds, of which 2.7 percent is earmarked for the National Federation of Coffee Growers and 3.7 percent for the National Coffee Fund; (4) exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of un- treated coffee) a certain proportion of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent if the National Coffee Committee (com- posed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation) so de- cides (as of the end of 1991, this provision was not in operation); and (5) the National Coffee Commit- tee establishes a domestic buying price based on in- ternational prices, for coffee intended for re-export, expressed in pesos for each load of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the public sector may be surrendered to financial intermediar- ies or to the Banco de la Republica. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from services and transfers are not required to be surrendered through the for- eign exchange market but may be sold to exchange houses or to financial intermediaries or used through foreign accounts. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are ef- fected at market rates. All foreign investments and foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank resi- dents,5 and the transfer of capital previously im- ported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2,1965) must be reg- istered with the Banco de la Republica. Foreign di- rect investments in Colombia are governed by Law No. 9 of 1991 (January 17,1991) and CONPES Reso- lution No. 49, 51-57 of 1991. These regulations are in accordance with the provisions of Decision Nos. 291 and 292 of the Cartagena Agreement, which govern foreign investments within the member countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign investment is freely allowed up to 100 percent of ownership in any sector of the economy except in defense and waste disposal. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sectors. While foreign capital participation in the financial sector is permitted up to 100 percent, the purchase of 10 per- cent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Super- intendent of Banks. CONPES can legislate special conditions affecting foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy and overrule the above- mentioned provisions (CONPES Resolution No. 49, 51-57 of October 1991). Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for purposes of fulfilling the Colombian ownership re- quirement, provided that profit and capital remit- tances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Registration of capital with the Banco de la Republica entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. Limitations on annual transfers of profits abroad were abolished in October 1991. Colombian invest- ment abroad should also be registered at the Banco de la Republica. Short-term foreign borrowing to finance any ac- tivity is permitted. Foreign loans with maturities ranging from 30 days to 5 years are subject to a non- remunerated deposit requirement ranging from 43 percent to 140 percent of the loan, respectively. 5Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also require registration. Public sector loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 119 The deposits are held for a period corresponding to the loan maturities. Exempted from the deposit re- quirement are credits for imports of capital goods; short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian exporters;6 credit card balances; loans destined for Colombian investments abroad; and green coffee, coal, and oil preshipment financing/ The limit on contractual interest rates of 2.5 percent over LIBOR or the U.S. prime rate remains in effect for the public sector, and there is a limit of 20 per- cent a year in U.S. dollar terms for the private sec- tor. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and the National Plan- ning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Government, the following are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and from the Banco de la Republica; prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval from the President of the Re- public. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Such investments must be maintained in Colombia for at least 18 months. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, or patents should be registered with INCOMEX for statistical purposes only. BANCOLDEX is entitled to lend up to US$450 million under this regime. 7Up to a total of US$100 million for green coffee and up to US$200 for coal and oil. These loans should be registered with the Banco de la Republica in order to avoid exceeding the limits. Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad. Gold Under Law No. 9 of January 17,1991, Colombian residents are allowed to purchase, sell, hold, im- port, and export gold. The Banco de la Republica makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equiva- lent to the average quotation in the gold market in London during the previous day; this price is con- verted into pesos at the representative market ex- change rate. The Banco de la Republica from time to time is- sues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 21. The system of exchange certificates was abolished. The Banco de la Republica stopped issuing exchange certificates. Imports and Import Payments August 16. The maximum payment period for im- ports was reduced to four months from six months. Capital August 12. New deposit requirements on foreign borrowing, varying with each additional month of maturity, were introduced as follows: 140 percent for loans with maturities of up to 30 days; 127 per- cent for those with maturites of 6 months; 112 per- cent for those with maturities of 12 months; 100 percent for those with maturities of 18 months; 69 percent for those with maturities of 3 years; and 43 percent for those with maturities of 5 years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the in- tervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 per F 0.0133. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 75 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are officially quoted on the ba- sis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is autho- rized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial bank (the only authorized dealer) for up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ment. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the com- mercial bank and the Postal Administration. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain goods is prohibited from all countries. The importation of other goods, except those originating from member countries of the European Union, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to individual licens- ing. All import transactions must be domiciled with the (single) authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. In- visible payments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when supporting docu- ments can be produced. These regulations apply to allowances for education, family maintenance, and medical treatment, as well as to remittances by for- eign workers of savings from their earnings. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of pay- ment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 250,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted if supporting docu- mentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without provid- ing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the Exchange Regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 121 Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Proceeds from ex- ports to foreign countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All ex- port transactions must be domiciled with the autho- rized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered to the authorized bank within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins. Capital tions Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permit- ted freely. Special controls (in addition to any applicable ex- change control requirements) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to ap- proval of the underlying transactions, not to pay- ments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- January 12. The Comorian franc was devalued to CF 75 per F 1 from CF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the in- tervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also offi- cially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. Payments to all countries are subject to a commis- sion of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are pay- ments of the state, the Postal Administration, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, ex- penditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt- service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Of- fice is subject to a commission of 0.5 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 100. An additional com- mission of 0.25 percent is levied on all payments to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Op- erations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. (Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo.) The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget ^he CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated ap- proval authority to the General Directorate. All ex- change transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Im- port and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. The system of import licenses has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations for all but 13 prod- ucts (Decree No. 88/414, May 28,1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the issuing zone, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents of authorized banks mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazaville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments The imports regime is, in principle, liberal; only certain items require import licenses. An annual im- port program classifies imports by zones: ( l ) the countries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Opera- tions Account countries; (4) European Union (EU) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this pro- gram require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EU countries may be used to import goods originating in any non-Operations Account country. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 123 All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank Licenses for imports from coun- tries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank and require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Direc- torate of Credit and Financial Relations. The ap- proved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. In April 1994, a new tariff structure was intro- duced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform with a view to rationalizing protection rates by narrowing dispersion while eliminating quanti- tative restrictions. The common duty rate of the UDEAC member countries for basic necessities was reduced to 5 percent, to 10 percent for raw materials and capital goods, to 20 percent for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and to 30 percent for products requiring special protection. Customs du- ties on imports from UDEAC member countries were set at preferential rates equivalent to 20 percent of the corresponding common external tariff rate. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'assurances et de r£assur- ances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided that they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are permitted with the authorization of the Gen- eral Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling for tourist or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in French francs. The allow- ances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 mil- lion a trip; (3) for official travel, the equivalent of ex- penses paid and CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; and (4) for medi- cal expenses abroad, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a max- imum of CFAF 2.5 million a trip. Allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermedi- aries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is lim- ited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are re- quired to declare all means of payment in their pos- session upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equiv- alent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regard- less of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign ac- count in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importa- tion of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Transfers by residents of amounts smaller than CFAF 500,000 to nonmember countries of the franc zone are subject to simple declaration, and those exceeding CFAF 500,000 require prior authorization. Transfers to nonmember countries by nonresidents living in the Congo for less than one year are subject to authorization. Members of diplomatic missions, employees of international organizations, employees of companies operating in the Congo, and govern- ment employees, as well as members of liberal profes- sions, are exempt from this regulation. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require an exchange com- mitment, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 REPUBLIC OF CONGO du cacao and Office des cultures vivri&res) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office congolais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions re- lating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins is- sued by the Bank of France, or any other bank of is- sue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent in addition to the 0.75 percent commission. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capi- tal transfers abroad require exchange control ap- proval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Congo- lese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the minister within 20 days. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior au- thorization from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has al- ready been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance and the Budget. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5 percent, and the term is at least two years, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each re- payment, must be reported to the General Director- ate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authoriza- tion is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign cur- rency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 mil- lion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved 2Induding those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer, between nonresidents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 125 foreign investments. The code provides for four cat- egories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. There are no official ex- ports of gold. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments April 1. A new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform with a view to rationalizing protection rates by nar- rowing dispersion while eliminating quantitative re- strictions. The common duty rate adopted by the UDEAC member countries for imported basic neces- sities was reduced to 5 percent, to 10 percent for raw materials and capital goods, to 20 percent for inter- mediate and miscellaneous goods, and to 30 percent for products requiring special protection. Customs duties on imports from UDEAC member countries were set at preferential rates equivalent to 20 percent of the corresponding common external tariff rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 33,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Col6n, the external value of which is determined freely by commercial banks and other financial in- stitutions in the interbank market.1 A tax of C 0.68 per US$1 applies to all foreign exchange transac- tions in the official market. The difference between buying and selling rates of authorized banks and fi- nancial institutions may not exceed 0.7 percent. The Government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the Central Bank. These operations are carried out at the official reference exchange rate, which is calcu- lated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market during the day. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling bank rates were C 164.51 and C 165.63, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1,1965. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are issued by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are the Central Bank, the state commercial banks, private banks, and other non- bank financial institutions authorized by the Cen- tral Bank. Arrears of the nonfinancial public sector are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies. foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized MONED electronic foreign exchange market among authorized traders and in which the Central Bank carries out its intervention opera- tions. Foreign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. 126 Imports and Import Payments A limited number of imports are subject to licens- ing requirements. All payments for imports may be made freely. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Customs tariff rates on most goods range from zero to 20 percent. In addition to any applicable customs tariff, the following taxes are levied on im- ports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 10 percent, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, de- pending on the essential quality of the item. I Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. With- holding taxes of 15 percent are levied on remit- tances of dividends. The 5 percent withholding tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock compa- nies whose shares were acquired at an officially ac- knowledged stock exchange. Remittances of interest abroad are subject to a 15 percent withhold- ing tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in interna- tional transactions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Central Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for industrial or agricultural/livestock activities. Interest on govern- ment borrowing abroad is exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Sixty percent of export proceeds from all exports may be retained by exporters, and the remainder must be sold to any financial institution authorized to operate in the interbank market. In turn, a finan- cial institution must transfer to the Central Bank 25 percent of total purchases of foreign exchange related to exports. The exchange rate applicable to this transfer is the buying exchange rate of the insti- tution plus C 0.10 per US$1. Exporters of nontradi- tional products to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive freely negotiable tax credit certificates (CATs) at the following rates based on the f.o.b. value: 15 percent for exports to the United ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 127 States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20 percent for exports to Canada.2 Most export licenses have been eliminated. How- ever, licenses are required for goods, such as arma- ments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Econ- omy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, root of ipecacuanha, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the Na- tional Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); textiles; flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's ap- proval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, ba- nanas, sugar, beef, and bovine cattle must be sur- rendered within 30 days of shipment; those from exports of other perishable agricultural items, within 60 days of shipment; those from exports of industrial products (excluding those indicated next) and other agricultural products, within 120 days of shipment; those from exports of durable and semi- durable industrial consumer products, within 180 days of shipment; and those from exports of capital goods, within 360 days of shipment. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports and, in some cases, are graduated in line with international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers, and capital transactions between residents and nonresi- dents are permitted. An annual limit of 6.25 percent of the face value of the debt converted is imposed on dividend remittances associated with debt/eq- uity conversions. The National Budget Authority3 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, decen- tralized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign curren- cies or invested in certificates of deposit denomi- nated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Natural and juridical persons may buy or sell, subject to approval from the Ministry of En- ergy and Natural Resources, at home or abroad, do- mestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18,1981), provided there is no infrac- tion of international agreements. Licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 13. The Central Bank announced that the spread between the buying and selling rates of au- thorized banks and financial institutions cannot ex- ceed 0.7 percent. Administration of Control December 19. The assembly approved a compre- hensive trade agreement with Mexico that would become effective January 1, 1995. The trade agree- ment covers trade in foods and services, invest- ment, intellectual property rights, and disputed settlement and envisages free trade of over 90 per- cent of goods within five years and of almost all goods within ten years. *CATs ceased to be issued to new exporters after December 31, 1992. Existing exporters continue to benefit from the CATs con- sistent with their specific contractual arrangements. 3Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 COSTA RICA Exports and Export Proceeds April 13. The surrender requirement for proceeds from exports was reduced 40 percent, and the re- quirement was extended to all exports. August 4. All financial institutions authorized to operate in the interbank market were required to transfer to the Central Bank 25 percent of their pur- chases of foreign exchange related to exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU; commissions must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the ex- change control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ga- bon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward ex- change cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential com- modities; no renewal of cover is possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, only for payments for imports of goods and only for the ^he CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements be- tween agencies of the BCEAO. currency stipulated in the commercial contract. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury, Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Im- port licenses for a short list of controlled products (Decree No. 93-313 of March 11,1993) are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotion in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to the exter- nal debt-servicing obligations of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Because Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes or show an overdraft position without prior authorization. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 COTE D'lVOIRE Imports and Import Payments Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requiring licenses issued by the Direc- torate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Quantitative or other limits for goods in the sec- ond category are set each year by the Minister of Industry and Commerce, in light of market condi- tions, local production, and following consultation with the Competitiveness Committee. With certain specific exceptions (e.g., diplomatic imports and used vehicles), all unrestricted imports with an f.o.b. value exceeding CFAF 3 million are subject to a preshipment inspection to verify their price, quantity, and quality; for values between CFAF 1.5 million and CFAF 3 million, imports may be subject to random inspection. For all imports (except those with prior authorization) whose f.o.b. value ex- ceeds CFAF 500,000, an import information declara- tion for statistical purposes is also required. A maximum tariff rate of 35 percent has been in effect since January 1994. A statistical tax of 2.5 per- cent of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports. Im- ports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations valued at more than CFAF 500,000 conducted with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank; trans- actions of lower value must also be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15,1981, foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required downpayment is made. nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the under- lying transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than the CFA banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in ex- cess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident fi- nancial intermediaries and authorized by the re- spective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAMU, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. Nonresident travelers may freely re-export means of payment, other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documenta- tion that they used funds drawn from a foreign ac- count in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase the means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are free of restrictions, with the excep- tion of certain metals, including precious metals and gems, the exportation of which requires prior authorization. Exports of ivory (above a minimum weight) and certain types of tropical wood are pro- hibited. Exports require a customs declaration but not a license. Exports of lumber are subject to quan- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 131 titative quotas allocated through auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific unitary ex- port tax and can be effected only by exporters au- thorized by the Price Stabilization Fund. Payment for exports to foreign countries, includ- ing those in the Operations Account Area, must be made within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of set- tlement and of the country of destination, export re- ceipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions valued at more than CFAF 1 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of banknotes and coins is- sued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declara- tion to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply, are maintained over borrowing abroad by the private sector, for- eign inward direct investment, all outward direct investment in foreign countries, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations, as well as issues by Cote d'lvoire companies, require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) foreign shares similar to secu- rities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign di- rect investments in Cote d'lvoire must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.4 Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of direct and other invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must also be re- ported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Ivoir- ien investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or loans approved by international trading houses to finance international trade trans- actions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above whose total outstanding amount, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in C6te d'lvoire. Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 COTE D'lVOIRE any one borrower and whose annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repay- ment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquida- tion of direct investments. The repayment of other loansrequires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and do- mestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempt for a specified pe- riod, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third-to-last year, 50 percent in the second-to- last year, and 25 percent in the last year. Imports of raw materials for which no equivalents are pro- duced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and ex- ports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning; authorization is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt im- ports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments January 19. The revision of the tariff regime that began in October 1992 was completed. The new re- gime consists of a single customs duty rate of 5 per- cent and six fiscal duties ranging from 5 percent to 30 percent. A few specific rates were retained on some products. January 21. The minimum value of imports requiring preshipment inspection was raised to CFAF 3 million. August 1. Imports of luxury rice were liberalized. December 29. Twelve groups of products subject to prior authorization or approval were liberalized. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. The export premium on locally manu- factured products and agricultural products (ex- cluding unprocessed coffee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples) was eliminated. January 25. The single export tax on cocoa and coffee was introduced. September 23. (1) The period during which pro- ceeds from exports must be received was shortened to 120 days from 180 days, and (2) the value of ex- port transactions to which the domiciliation re- quirement applies was raised to CFAF 1 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Croatia is the Kuna, the external value of which is determined in the interbank mar- ket. The exchange rates in the interbank market are determined by authorized banks that transact with each other at freely negotiated rates. The National Bank of Croatia may set intervention exchange rates at which it will transact with banks outside the interbank market for purposes of smoothing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. On De- cember 31,1994, the average interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar was HRK 5.6287 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Croatia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 29,1995. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions, which was enacted on October 7,1993. The National Bank formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations under this law. A foreign trade law (coordinated with do- mestic trade legislation) is under preparation. Com- panies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. The representa- tive offices of foreign companies must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Foreign exchange transactions must be con- ducted through authorized banks; currently 39 commercial banks in Croatia are licensed to con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Restricted li- censes are given to banks that may open accounts for resident natural persons and may buy and sell banknotes and checks (currently 13 banks). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents and nonresidents may be effected in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange ac- counts only in Croatia. However, the National Bank has the authority to allow resident juridical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business opera- tions and meet the requirement of regular foreign trade activities abroad. The law also makes specific provisions for resident juridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to maintain ac- counts with foreign banks, subject to a license is- sued by the National Bank. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange ac- counts with fully licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign ex- change and debited for payments abroad for con- version into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic currency into a foreign currency is permit- ted. Juridical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign banknotes up to the limit of $20,000 without special permission from the National Bank. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open accounts in domestic currency with the pro- ceeds from sales of goods and services or with for- eign exchange transferred from abroad. They may purchase foreign exchange with funds held in these accounts without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Pending the introduction of a new import regime, the product classification of the import regime of the former So- cialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is main- tained, with a free list (LB), a list of items subject to quotas, and a list of items subject to ad hoc licensing (D). Items on the free list (just under 6,000 out of a to- tal of about 6,600) comprise about 90 percent of the value of imports. Of the restricted items, only about 2 percent of imports are subject to licensing and about 2 percent to quotas. The Ministry of Econ- omy, in consultation with the Chamber of Com- merce, administers the quotas and licensing. List D includes items whose importation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (such as, arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work). The importation of these items is allowed on a case-by-case basis and for specific purposes. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 CROATIA Imports are subject to a customs tariffs of up to 18 percent (compared with up to 25 percent in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) plus a tax of up to 10 percent, and a customs admin- istration fee of 1 percent. The exemption for duty- free imports by travelers is $100. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the value of $500 are subject to a simplified customs procedure with a unified tariff rate of 8 percent. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are applied. Returning citizens may bring into the country household effects duty-free up to the equivalent of $45,000 for household effects and $100,000 for private business purposes. Under cer- tain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw materials and intermediate prod- ucts used in the production of exports are exempt from all import duties and taxes, except the 1 percent customs fee, provided that the value added of the export product is at least 30 percent of the value of the imported items and that export pro- ceeds are received in convertible currency. Payments for authorized imports by juridical persons are not restricted. Advance payments for imports are not permit- ted, except where down payments are required by suppliers in accordance with customary interna- tional practices. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports by juridical persons may be made freely. Pay- ments of leasing fees are permitted provided that temporary imports have been registered with the Customs Office. Natural persons may also purchase foreign exchange in the interbank market for the pay- ment of goods and services abroad and for deposit in a foreign exchange account for the purpose of future payments. Resident juridical persons (including tradesmen, natural persons engaging in independent activities) may purchase foreign exchange only for authorized payments abroad, except to make pay- ments for activities related to scientific, humanitar- ian, cultural, or sport events. Payments of royalties, insurance, and legal obligations and contracting of life and casualty insurance policies with foreign com- panies are also permitted. Resident natural persons may take out of the country foreign currency equivalent to DM 1,000. An additional amount equivalent up to DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. In both cases the Na- tional Bank may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresi- dents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. In principle, exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (list D products: e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); several basic foodstuffs to ensure adequate domes- tic supplies; and high-quality wood. Export proceeds must be collected and repatri- ated in full to Croatia within 60 days of the date of exportation; this period may be extended with the permission of the National Bank. If payment terms in excess of 60 days have been agreed with foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be regis- tered with the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those applying to merchan- dise exports. The importation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HRK 2,000 a person. Capital Resident juridical persons, including commercial banks, may borrow abroad. They are required to register the loans contracted, including commercial credits, with the National Bank. Financial credits may be extended to nonresidents by resident juridi- cal persons, including tradesmen and natural per- sons engaging in independent activities, only if these credits are financed from profits or credit ob- tained from abroad. Natural persons are permitted to obtain loans from nonresidents in domestic or foreign currency. The foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are subject to a limit. Foreign direct investment by nonresidents may take the form of joint ventures or full ownership and must be registered with the commercial courts. Re- patriation of capital and transfers abroad of profits are not restricted. In principle, domestic and foreign investment is treated equally, but in practice nonres- ident investors enjoy certain benefits. If the foreign equity capital participation exceeds 20 percent, in- puts used in the project are exempt from import du- ties. Earnings in the first year of operation are exempt from the profit tax, and 50 percent and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 135 25 percent of earnings in the second and third years, respectively, are exempt from the profit tax. Foreign direct investment abroad by residents must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Economy. Such invest- ment must generally be undertaken through loans abroad or through reinvestment of profits. Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, but outward portfolio investment is restricted. Nonresident natural persons may acquire real es- tate in Croatia through inheritance as long as their country of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may purchase real estate only under the same condi- tions. Nonresident natural or juridical persons en- gaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these conditions and may sell it to resident or nonresident juridical per- sons. In principle, residents may acquire real estate abroad on the basis of reciprocity of treatment, but in practice, they are not permitted to purchase for- eign exchange in the exchange market for this pur- pose; the use of balances in foreign exchange accounts for this purpose is also prohibited. Gold The exportation or importation of gold, except unprocessed gold by producers of gold and gold coins or by authorized commercial banks, is subject to the approval of the National Bank. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 30. The kuna replaced the Croatian dinar as the national currency at the ratio of 1 kuna for 1,000 Croatian dinars. October 7. Foreign exchange repurchase agree- ments were introduced by the National Bank of Croatia. Although these are offered to commercial banks at the initiative of the National Bank for mon- etary management purposes, they can be used by commercial banks to manage forward exchange risks. Prescription of Currency June 30. Croatia canceled unilaterally the bilateral payments agreement with Slovenia. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement May 29. Croatia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound, the external value of which is pegged to a basket based on the European Currency Unit (ECU) at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, within margins of ±2.25 per- cent around the ECU central rate. On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4759 and £C 0.4778, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the ECU, deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to certain limitations, in- cluding a limit on spreads between the buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the forward market at rates that may be freely negoti- ated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward rates may not differ by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a simi- lar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to pur- chase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The Central Bank offers autho- rized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When justified (for ex- ample, payments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. Forward cover may also be provided for up to 12 months to resi- dents for specific financial commitments. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Cyprus formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 9,1991. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an external account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an external account, or in any foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated external ac- counts, or foreign currency accounts. These ac- counts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency ac- counts), proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cy- prus pounds. External accounts and foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for payments in cash (Cy- prus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresi- dent status (generally designated as offshore com- panies) by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain external ac- counts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Resident per- 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 137 sons and firms dealing with transit trade or en- gaged in manufacturer-exporter activities or in the hotel business may open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts subject to certain requirements. Res- idents dealing with transit trade may deposit up to 95 percent of sale proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for the value of traded goods. Residents engaged in manufacturer-exporter activi- ties may deposit up to 50 percent of export pro- ceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in production. Both transit traders and manufacturers-exporters are, however, required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances in excess of the amount that is necessary for payments of the value of traded goods of raw materials during the follow- ing three months. Resident hoteliers may deposit in foreign currency accounts part of their receipts in foreign currency and use balances to make install- ment payments on foreign currency loans. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign currency, in external accounts in Cyprus or in accounts abroad, all of their foreign currency holdings and earnings accru- ing from properties they own abroad. Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to £C 10,0003 in principal may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus. Funds can also be released from blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the ac- count holder and his or her family, including educa- tional expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immov- able property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of licensing requirements. An import license is required for certain commodi- ties such as fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, fresh meat, and other goods produced or manufactured locally. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may amend the list of commodities subject to licensing as deemed necessary to regulate the importation of goods for the encouragement of local production and manufacture and for the improvement of the balance of payments. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documentary evi- dence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for im- ports whose value does not exceed £C 20,000. Au- thorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents of Cyprus foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; foreign exchange in excess of this limit may be sold to departing residents with the approval of the Central Bank. An import sur- charge of 3.8 percent (2.5 percent for imports from European Union countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports, except food, pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the ap- proval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad without limitation, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums owed to foreign insurance companies may be remit- ted after all contingencies have been deducted. Nonresidents who are temporarily employed in Cy- prus by resident firms or individuals and are paid in local currency may transfer abroad their remu- neration less local living expenses and taxes. Allowances are granted to residents for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower-level institu- tions of learning.4 Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living, which is reviewed yearly, and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living ex- penses for the student. The current annual allow- ance for living expenses for studies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 5,000; for Greece, £C 3,300; for Canada and the United States, £C 6,600; for Australia, £C 4,000; and for all other countries, £C 3,300. There is no limit on the re- mittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. 3On January 1,1995, this amount was increased to £C 50,000. ^he amount that can be transferred without reference to the Central Bank is £C 400 a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 CYPRUS Authorized dealers are allowed, without any ref- erence to the Central Bank, to sell to resident travel- ers foreign exchange up to £C 750 a person a trip for tourist travel; the Central Bank approves applica- tions for allocations of additional foreign exchange without limitation to cover genuine travel ex- penses. The allowance for business travel is not fixed but depends on the length of stay abroad. Au- thorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 150 a day with a maximum of £C 1,500 a trip; additional amounts may be granted with the ap- proval of the Central Bank on proof of need. Company credit cards valid abroad are issued to resident businessmen and professionals traveling abroad on business. These international credit cards entitle the holders to charge their expenses for ho- tels, restaurants, unlimited transportation and in- ternational telephone calls, cash withdrawals of up to £C 100 a trip, and any other expense up to £C 300 a trip, as well as payments abroad or from Cyprus up to £C 300 per case for certain additional pur- poses such as subscriptions to professional bodies or societies and fees for enrollment in educational seminars or conferences. If resident travelers hold an international credit card, authorized dealers are allowed to provide an allowance of up to £C 80 a day with a maximum of £C 800 a trip for business travel. Additional amounts for business travel may be provided with the approval of the Central Bank. In addition, enterprises may use international credit cards for payments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items. Authorized dealers are also allowed to issue personal credit cards, valid abroad, to certain categories of residents. Foreign exchange for medical expenses abroad is granted without limit, and authorized dealers are empowered to provide allowances of up to £C 3,000 without refer- ence to the Central Bank. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that departing residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival less expenses incurred in Cyprus. Nonresidents entering Cyprus should declare any foreign exchange that they plan to use to purchase goods to export, to pur- chase properties, or to deposit with authorized deal- ers. Nonresidents may export up to $1,000 in foreign currency notes that they imported, even if these notes were not declared on arrival. In addition, au- thorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into for- eign currency for departing nonresidents and are permitted to issue to departing nonresidents, as well as to departing resident employees of offshore com- panies, any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose value exceeds £C 1,000 are subject to exchange control monitoring to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers without delay. Exports of potatoes and carrots are carried out by the respective marketing boards, and exports of wheat, barley, and maize are carried out by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an au- thorized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature require au- thorization from the Central Bank. Direct invest- ment abroad by residents is permitted, provided that the proposed investments will promote exports of goods and services or will benefit the Cypriot economy. Outward portfolio investment by resi- dents is not permitted, except for insurance compa- nies (up to 20 percent of their reserves); Cypriot repatriates who hold foreign currency or external accounts; and resident employees of multinational enterprises who participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered to them by their employer. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits ac- cruing to the national economy. Foreigners may own up to 100 percent of the capital of enterprises engaged in the manufacture of goods exclusively for export. Foreign participation of up to 49 percent is allowed for manufacture of new products, certain tourist activities, and other industrial projects. In- ward investment is particularly welcome in projects that upgrade the tourist product (such as marinas, golf courses, and theme parks). In sectors of specific treatment, such as banking and finance, applica- tions are examined on a case-by-case basis. Foreign direct investment is discouraged in saturated sec- tors such as trading, real estate development, travel agencies, restaurants, and local transportation. For- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 139 eign participation in inward portfolio investment in listed company securities is permitted up to a limit of 30 percent generally and 40 percent in invest- ment companies and mutual funds. Foreigners are allowed to purchase government securities in do- mestic currency. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments, in- cluding capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time after payment of taxes. Commercial credits from abroad with a maturity of less than 200 days and commercial credit from Cyprus with a maturity of less than 180 days may be negotiated freely. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, nonresident aliens may ac- quire immovable property in Cyprus for use as a residence or holiday home; they must, however, purchase such property with foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the original purchase price of the property; the remaining balance is transferable at an annual rate of £C 10,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots pur- chasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nation- als) who take up residence outside Cyprus may im- mediately transfer abroad up to £C 20,000 per household; any excess amount is deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 10,000 a year.5 The transfer abroad of funds from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real es- tate, other than that referred to in the preceding ^This amount will increase to £C 50,000 as from January 1, 1995. paragraph, is limited to £C 10,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a blocked account and also released at the rate of £C 10,000 a year. Interest earned on a blocked account can be freely trans- ferred abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by resi- dents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cy- prus for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The exportation of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1994 Payments for Invisibles April 4. The use of international credit cards was expanded so as to cover additional payments for telephone calls abroad without limit and payments abroad up to £C 300 for each occurrence for the fol- lowing additional purposes: examination fees and application fees to educational institutions abroad, subscriptions to professional bodies or societies, fees for enrollment in educational seminars or con- ferences, and hotel reservation fees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech Koruna. Its external value is determined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark (65 percent) and the U.S. dollar (35 percent). This ex- change rate applies to all transactions except those with the Slovak Republic. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were KC 27.91 and KC 28.19, respectively, per US$1. A floating exchange rate applies to tourist transactions with the Slovak Republic. The Czech National Bank (CNB) quotes daily buying and selling rates for 22 convertible curren- cies,1 European currency units (ECUs), and SDRs. The market value of the koruna, which is deter- mined at daily fixing sessions attended by the CNB and participants in the domestic interbank foreign exchange market, is allowed to fluctuate within a margin of ±0.5 percent around its theoretical level, based on exchange rates in the international mar- ket. The exchange rates for other currencies are based on the cross rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates set at the daily fixing sessions are used as the official exchange rates at which customers can choose to trade the next day. Forward foreign exchange transactions are permitted. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are respon- sible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations in accordance with the Foreign Ex- change Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance ex- ercises authority over governmental credits and over budgetary and subsidized organizations, civic associations, churches, religious societies, founda- tions, and other legal persons not engaged in busi- ness activities and over the nonbusiness activities of natural persons. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all registered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Payments to and receipts from countries are effected in convertible currencies, with the excep- tion of payments to and receipts from the Slovak Republic. Since February 1993, all commercial transactions with the Slovak Republic, excluding transactions relating to re-exports and payments from foreign exchange accounts, have been re- quired to be effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two coun- tries. Transactions are converted from the currency of the contract into clearing ECUs at a rate that may differ by up to 5 percent from the market cross rate against the ECU, as set by the central banks. As of December 31, 1994, the exchange rate of the Czech koruna against the clearing ECU was the same as the market cross rate. If the balances on the account outstanding at the end of each month exceed clear- ing ECU 130 million, the excess balances are settled in a convertible currency by the fifteenth of the fol- lowing month. Payments by juridical persons and entrepreneurs in connection with obligations in- curred before February 8,1993 are effected through another set of clearing accounts denominated in clearing koruny at the exchange rate of 1 clearing koruna per K£ 1 or Sk 1 (Slovak koruna). Their ex- change rate to the clearing ECU equals the ex- change rate of the Czech koruna to the ECU that was in effect on February 8, 1993. These accounts are settled every month. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts. Without revealing the source of foreign exchange, resident natural persons may open interest-bearing foreign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31,1990 and entre- preneurs that had outstanding foreign exchange ac- counts are also allowed to maintain these accounts. However, enterprises opening such accounts after December 31,1990 must obtain a permit exempting them from the 100 percent surrender requirement and allowing them to use balances on these ac- counts freely to finance their activities. These per- mits are granted liberally. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 141 Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of inter- est-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts, which may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts, except for those relating to bi- lateral agreements on support and protection of in- vestments and those relating to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the CNB or the Min- istry of Finance. (2) Foreign currency accounts, in which foreign ex- change may be deposited freely and from which payments may be made, in the Czech Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or entrepreneur. Import li- censes are required for a few strategic items, such as uranic ore, its concentrates, coal, poisons, military materials, firearms and ammunition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accom- panied by levies applies to some agricultural prod- ucts, mineral fuel and oils, iron and steel and their products, and some chemical products. All imports, including those by individuals, are subject to an ad valorem customs duty ranging up to 80 percent and to a value-added tax (VAT) of 5 percent or 23 per- cent.2 Imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). Un- der the GSP, 43 "least developed" countries benefit from a duty exemption, and 80 developing coun- tries are granted a 75 percent reduction from the ap- plicable customs duties; tropical products are granted reductions of 85-100 percent. Resident individuals are required to repatriate foreign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange ac- count foreign exchange (including gold and gold bullion but not gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of KC 5,000. Resident enterprises and entrepreneurs are normally required to repatriate, without delay, foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks or keep them in foreign exchange accounts. A limited number of products require export li- censes for purposes of health control (including 2The incidence of customs tariffs was 5 percent in 1994 (mea- sured as a weighted average). livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary re- straints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal mar- ket natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construc- tion materials). For the two latter groups of prod- ucts, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Czech resident individuals may withdraw an un- limited amount of foreign exchange from their for- eign currency accounts to make invisible payments. In addition, residents are entitled to buy foreign ex- change to travel abroad, up to the equivalent of KC 12,000. Transfers of alimony may be made to a citizen of a country that is a party to an interna- tional agreement on enforcement of alimonies or that does not restrict such transfers to the Czech Re- public. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are al- lowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. A special permit is required in most instances for re- mittances relating to family maintenance, educa- tion, and medical treatment. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earn- ings. Transfers of payments connected with deben- ture bonds denominated in koruny that are payable within one year are permitted with the approval of the CNB. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers must be authorized by the CNB unless stipulated differently by an intergovernmental agreement. With certain exceptions related to tour- ism, exports and imports of koruna banknotes ex- ceeding K£ 5,000 and their transfer abroad are permitted only with a foreign exchange license is- sued by the CNB. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of foreign exchange as- sets, including foreign currencies, by nonresidents. Capital Resident enterprises and entrepreneurs may freely obtain suppliers' credits. Financial credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the ap- proval of the CNB, and foreign direct investments abroad must be approved by the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There is no limit on equity participation by nonresi- dents. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, foreign investors are allowed to repatriate freely the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 CZECH REPUBLIC full value of their capital participation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Gold Within 30 days of acquisition, residents are re- quired to sell gold to commercial banks that are au- thorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Nonresidents may export gold coins without a li- cense, provided that they submit a certificate con- firming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the country. To export gold bullion, exporters must obtain a foreign exchange license. Changes During 1994 Prescription of Currency March 3. The exchange rate of the Czech koruna against the clearing ECU was adjusted from 3 per- cent above the market cross rate to parity with the market cross rate. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 24. Procedures for enterprises to obtain permits to keep foreign currency accounts were simplified and partially liberalized. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The maximum allowance for foreign travel was raised to the equivalent of KC 12,000 a year. September 1. The limit on the amount of the do- mestic currency that can be imported or exported was increased to KC 5,000. Capital September 1. (1) purchases of foreign securities by residents were partially liberalized; (2) the rules for acquiring properties abroad were simplified; and (3) exports and imports of securities denomi- nated in koruny were permitted without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Neth- erlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot ex- change rates between the Danish krone and the cur- rencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Danmarks Na- tionalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participat- ing in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1994, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates pen 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Austrian schillings Belgian or Luxembourg francs Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 Danish Upper limit Kroner Lower limit 62.95610 46.69100 21.47470 442.96800 132.06600 10.67920 393.10500 4.47770 5.59850 15.92660 328.46100 97.94300 7.92014 291.54400 3.32090 4.15190 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does in- tervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates and has an obligation to intervene on the Danish for- 1 Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1, 1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Nether- lands guilder remained at ±2.25 percent. 3Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 4.32100 and 3.20400. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 5.20640 and 3.86140. eign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 21 foreign currencies, the SDR, and the ECU5 are officially fixed daily and reflect the rates prevailing at the time of the fixing. On December 30,1994, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Dkr 6.0830 per US$1. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without limitation with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instruments involved. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Business and Industry with effect from July 23, 1994, stipulates that payments of more than Dkr 60,000 between residents and nonresidents must be reported to Danmarks Nationalbank for statistical purposes. For tax control purposes, residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institu- tions, have deposited securities abroad, or have en- tered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1,1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Is- lands are still subject to the regulations in force be- fore July 23,1994. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Reporting requirements for statistical Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kr6nur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 DENMARK purposes are administered by Danmarks National- bank and by the foreign exchange dealers, whereas reporting requirements for tax purposes on deposit- ing foreign securities and on accounts abroad are part of the tax legislation and are administered by the tax authorities and the foreign exchange deal- ers. Foreign exchange dealers are commercial banks, savings banks, and stockbrokerage compa- nies or other financial institutions, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle pay- ments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspon- dent banks). Danmarks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry or the Minis- try of Agriculture and Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Denmark notified the Fund on July 27, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Union (EU) system of export- import licenses has been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Re- public of Korea, or any other country outside the EU that is not a state trading country. A larger num- ber of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for the waste and scrap of certain metals. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Business and In- dustry are based on Articles 23a - 73a of the EU Treaty on Capital Movements and on the Organiza- tion for Economic Cooperation and Development Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EU and those of the rest of the world. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 25 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 25 percent. There is no cus- toms duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control July 23. By executive order, reporting require- ments for tax purposes on depositing foreign secu- rities and on accounts abroad were made part of the tax legislation and would be administered by the tax authorities and by foreign exchange dealers in- stead of by Danmarks Nationalbank. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-6 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. A fixed commission of about DF 3,000 is charged on transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts for commercial and finan- cial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free mar- ket rates. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the of- ficial or the commercial banking sector. Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as from September 19,1980. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, except that all set- tlements with Israel are prohibited. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the cur- rency against U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Dji- bouti, but the territory as a whole does not consti- tute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax, at the rate of 33 percent. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated min- eral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds There are virtually no restrictions. Export pro- ceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. A tax of 10 percent ap- plies to fees and salaries paid to individuals and le- gal entities who, for professional purposes, are not permanent residents of Djibouti. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or ex- panded to undertake certain specific economic ac- tivities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Under the regime of "franc enterprises," firms en- gaged in manufacturing and service activities that use high technology and are export oriented are ex- empted from the profit tax during the first ten years of operation and from the export tax in respect of goods and services that are exported. Changes During 1994 Capital October 1. For purposes of promoting industries in the private sector, a law establishing the regime of "franc enterprises" was enacted. Firms operating under this regime must be engaged in manufactur- ing or service activities using high technology and must be export oriented. They would be exempted from the profit tax during the first ten years of oper- ation and from the export tax in respect of goods and services that are exported. The law established a National Commission on Investment with respon- sibility for administering simplified procedures for approving investment applications and resolving labor disputes. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13,1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to ap- prove sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories partici- pating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARI- COM)2 must be made in the currency of the CARI- COM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; per- lrThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise aU currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. mission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Domin- ica. The accounts can only be credited with foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Iraq are prohibited, and all im- ports originating from the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, that is, Albania, Cambodia, China, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, require a license. Imports of specified goods originating outside the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (DECS)4 and CARICOM require a license. The Common Exter- nal Tariff of CARICOM states is applied to all imports. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Minis- try of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period, and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business travel- ers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, pro- vided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, and upon presentation of travel documents; (4) for overseas travel for medical treat- ment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of travel documents and a medical cer- tificate stating that the journey is necessary; (5) for educational expenses, including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents residing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or inca- pacitated dependents). 4The member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 147 Amounts in excess of specified limits may be ob- tained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval from the Ministry of Finance must also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earn- ings of foreign workers and profits and dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted af- ter settlement of all tax or other public liabilities. The exportation of Eastern Caribbean banknotes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by resi- dents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts pre- scribed by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific li- censes are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda- tory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency ac- count into which the proceeds may be paid. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Market- ing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1 percent if the export price is between 55 cents and 60 cents a pound; if the export price exceeds 60 cents a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25 percent of the excess is imposed. eign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits re- quire exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresi- dents require approval, which is normally granted, subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 a family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any related liabilities. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quanti- ties of gold may be imported for industrial pur- poses only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a for- Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, the external value of which is de- termined in the interbank market. Since September 1994, the official exchange rate has been set weekly on the basis of the average of the previous week's exchange rates in the interbank market, in which the rates are determined by supply and demand. On December 31, the official exchange rate was RD$12.87 per US$1. A commission equivalent to 3 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports has not been collected since June 1994 as its gradual elimination is provided for in Law No. 11-12 on tax reform by the Central Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 A commission of 1.5 percent is charged on sales of foreign exchange in both the bank market and the official market. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The Dominican Republic formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1,1953. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. Thirteen commercial banks (including the state-owned Reserve Bank) are operating in the for- eign exchange market. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through special accounts established under recipro- cal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements under the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina and Venezuela have been sus- pended. All payments must be invoiced in U.S. dol- lars; otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum and its derivatives, medicine, newsprint paper and equipment, and agricultural products are exempt from this commission. the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Service payments on the external public debt are executed in the same currency in which the loan is denominated. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports of coal for the use of the electric company and priority imports for public enterprises are transacted through the Central Bank at the official exchange rate. Imports on a docu- ment-against-payments basis must be denominated in U.S. dollars; for these imports, certification of the use of foreign currency is required for customs clearance. All other imports are transacted through the free interbank market and are subject only to verification of appropriate documentation. Most tariff rates range from 5 percent to 35 percent, and certain luxury imported goods are subject to an excise tax ranging from 5 percent to 80 percent. Payments for Invisibles All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documenta- tion requirements. Annual profit remittances can- not exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus re- investment minus repatriation, duly registered with the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists may freely convert pesos to dollars upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are prohibited, including some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). For purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices estab- lished by the Central Bank for certain exports. Firms operating in the industrial free zones and dealing in ferro-nickel exports are exempt from the surrender requirement; firms operating in the in- dustrial free zones are not subject to export price restrictions. The issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario), provided for by Law No. 69, was abolished by Law No. 11-92. Law No. 69 still regu- 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 149 lates the system of temporary admission for im- ports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. The system of refunding a portion of import du- ties paid on raw materials and on inputs for nontra- ditional exports was abolished by Law No. 11-92 on tax reform or Law No. 14-93 on customs codes, re- spectively. The 100 percent refund of import duties in the industrial free trade zones was deleted from Law No. 299 and included in Law No. 8-90. (Ex- porters of nontraditional products eligible under the temporary system of Law No. 69 are also ex- empt from taxes.) Exporters may not extend credit with a maturity of more than 30 days from the date of shipment to foreign buyers without authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles may be sold in the interbank market. Certain other receipts from invisibles (including international telephone calls, international credit card transac- tions, jet fuel, foreign embassies, alimonies, dona- tions, and real estate) must be surrendered to the Central Bank. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresidents. However, foreign direct investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19, 1978, which created the Directorate of Foreign Investment to approve direct investment requests. Such investments must be reg- istered with the Central Bank. External debt can be contracted directly by the central Government, subject to congressional au- thorization. According to Decree No. 101 of August 20, 1982 and Law No. 749 of January 6, 1978, new loans by other public entities require authorization from the President of the Republic for their subse- quent registration by the Monetary Board. Accord- ing to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on December 13,1976, priority is given to the approval of new loans associated with exports, im- port substitution, and social projects, such as hous- ing and education. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the princi- pal international interest rate by more than a certain margin. There are also minimum maturity require- ments according to the type of financing. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the official exchange rate; the servicing of private external debt that is not guaranteed by the Government is ef- fected through the interbank market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement September 7. The Monetary Board announced that the official exchange rate would be set weekly on the basis of the average of the previous week's ex- change rates in the interbank market; previously, the official exchange rate was set on a daily basis to reflect the previous day's exchange rates in the in- terbank market. Proceeds from Invisibles September 7. The proceeds originating from inter- national credit card transactions were subject to the surrender requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange rates: (1) the free market rate; and (2) the central bank official exchange rate. The selling rate of the Central Bank of Ecuador is established weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free market of the previous week. The buying rate of the Central Bank is set 2 percent lower than its selling rate. The Central Bank's buy- ing rate for the export proceeds of the state petro- leum company (PETROECUADOR) is set S/. 180 lower than the selling rate. The Central Bank's selling rate is applied to all external payments of the public sector. All legally permitted foreign exchange transac- tions, other than those conducted through the Cen- tral Bank, may be conducted in the free market. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates in the free market were S/. 2,268 and S/. 2,270, respec- tively. The Central Bank is authorized to intervene in the free market. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are per- mitted to conduct forward swaps and options and transactions in other financial derivative instru- ments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. External credits contracted by the private sector must be registered at the Central Bank within 45 days of disbursement. Private sector credit arrange- ments that are not registered within the 45-day pe- riod are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25 percent of the credit amount. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from August 31,1970. Administration of Control Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exploration for, and production, transporta- tion, and commercialization of, oil and its deriva- tives may be carried out through the free market or through the Central Bank. Foreign exchange trans- actions of the private sector may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports must be registered with the Central Bank to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transac- tion. Import licenses granted by the Central Bank are required. Prescription of Currency Some settlements with Cuba and Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. Payments be- tween Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, or Venezuela may be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible curren- cies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries. List I comprises priority goods (the "Special" Group), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semiessential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods). List II covers luxury goods. Imports of all goods not included on these two lists are prohib- ited, primarily to protect industry, the environment, and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also pro- hibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. Prior import licenses are required for all permit- ted imports except books, newspapers, periodicals, printed music, medicines, and spare parts for ma- chinery and automotive vehicles valued at $5,000 f.o.b. or less. In addition, PETROECUADOR may, with- out a license, import supplies, materials, and equip- ment during emergencies. Import licenses are issued free of charge irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import tax has been paid, prior ministerial authorization (when needed) has been obtained, and insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. Certain agricultural crops, milled flour, and cooking oil are granted special pro- tection through the licensing process. All private sector imports are subject to the 10 percent value- ISO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 151 added tax. There is a temporary import admission regime for inputs used in export production. For certain agricultural imports, standard import tariffs were supplemented in 1993 by a system of corrective tariffs adopted with the announced in- tention of reducing the variation, over time, of the cost of such imports. The system incorporates up- per and lower benchmark prices for each product. For imports priced below the lower benchmark, the supplementary corrective tariff is applied so as to raise import costs to the lower benchmark level. For imports priced above the upper benchmark, a re- bate is available on the standard import tariff, so as to minimize the excess relative to the benchmark. For automobiles, official reference prices are pub- lished for purposes of calculating tariffs. The refer- ence prices establish a minimum f.o.b. value and when importers declare a higher value, tariffs are calculated on the basis of the higher value. Under the current import tariff regime, most goods are subject to the rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 per- cent, or 20 percent, with the exception of automo- biles, which are subject to a tariff of 40 percent. Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted at the central bank rate. Other payments for current invis- ibles must be settled in the free market. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. The remit- tance abroad of dividends and profits is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. A list of agricultural exports and a list of exports subject to quotas ("ex- portable surplus") are reviewed by the relevant ministries. All goods not on these lists may be ex- ported freely. All export proceeds must be surren- dered to authorized financial entities no later than (1) 90 days from the date of shipment for bananas and plantains, shrimp, unprocessed coffee and co- coa, fish and other unprocessed seafood, and other perishable and primary products; and (2) 180 days from the date of shipment for all other products. When exporters and foreign buyers agree on sight terms of payment, foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered within 15 days of the date of ship- ment. Those who disregard the above surrender re- quirements are subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. Authorized financial entities may purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of future exports within a maximum period of 180 days before the projected date of the export settlement. The surrender requirement does not apply to ex- ports effected under authorized barter transactions. However, barter transactions require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Inte- gration, and Fisheries; they must be registered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limita- tions. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilat- eral payments agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of payment. Exporters may deduct up to 15 percent from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of consular fees and commissions paid abroad. Exporters of marine products are per- mitted to retain up to 30 percent of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished products of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surren- dered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/. 5 a barrel; in addi- tion, a tax of $0.05 a barrel is paid on crude oil ex- ported through the pipeline. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on exchange reserves of the central bank and all invisible re- ceipts of the public sector, which are transacted at the central bank rate. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Loan disbursements to the public sector must be transacted at the central bank rate. Unless specifically stated, new foreign direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 ECUADOR investments do not require prior authorization. Both domestic and foreign enterprises are subject to a 25 percent income tax rate. Repatriation of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market if investments were made through this market. Transfers of all other gains are subject to a tax rate of 33 percent. All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the Government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the Monetary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Fi- nance to the Monetary Board, accompanied by de- tailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In ex- amining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on mon- etary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the Gen- eral Development Plan or receive a favorable ruling from the National Council for Development (CON- ADE). New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the Central Bank. Gold The private sector is authorized to buy and sell gold in the international and domestic markets. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement November 1. (1) The spread between the Central Bank's buying and selling rates applied to pur- chases of foreign exchange from the private sector was set at a 2 percent spread instead of S/. 250 per US$1. During the period from November 2 through December 31, 1994, the Central Bank reduced the spread between the buying and selling rates ap- plied to export transactions by PETROECUADOR from S/. 250 per US$1 to S/. 180 per US$1; (2) the maxi- mum period of 180 days for conducting forward foreign exchange operations was eliminated. Administration of Control November 1. Hydrocarbon transactions between foreign companies and PETROECUADOR were per- mitted to be carried out through the Central Bank's exchange market or through the free exchange market. Imports and Import Payments August 16. Prepayments for private sector im- ports were allowed to be made without prior autho- rization from the Monetary Board and were permitted to be negotiated freely. Capital January 25. The commission of 0.25 percent ap- plied to public sector foreign loan disbursements was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, the external value of which is determined in a free mar- ket. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention cur- rency. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of pay- ment (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) on their own accounts. These transactions, however, must be conducted through the accounts main- tained by dealers with authorized banks in Egypt. In addition, authorized nonbank dealers may bro- ker any foreign exchange operation and transaction except transfers to and from the country, on the ac- counts of their bank or nonbank customers. On De- cember 29, 1994, the exchange rate in the free market was LE 3.4 per US$1. A special exchange rate of LE 1.30 per US$1 is ap- plied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a separate rate of LE 0.3913 per US$1 is used for the liquidation of balances related to past bilateral pay- ments agreements. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the Cen- tral Bank of Egypt is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Administration of Control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general au- thorization, without obtaining specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade formulates external trade policy. The monopoly of the public sector over the exportation and importation of certain products has been abol- ished. Port Said City has held the status of a free zone since 1977. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any convertible cur- rency. Settlements with Sudan, the only country with which Egypt maintains an operative bilateral payments agreement, are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Payments not covered by the agreement may be made in any convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compen- sation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements, the indem- nity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are four types of accounts: free accounts, "D" accounts, special capital accounts, and capital and operations accounts. Free accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar ac- counts, foreign banknotes, foreign currency equiva- lents from funds transferred from previously existing free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and in- terest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for pay- ments in Egypt. "D" accounts may be opened in the name of resi- dents of Sudan. These accounts are largely histori- cal. They are usually credited with transfers under the respective payments agreement. Balances are used to make local payments allowed under the bi- lateral agreement, including for imports from Egypt. Currently, outstanding balances on these ac- counts are minimal. Special capital accounts may be credited with pro- ceeds from sales of real estate owned by foreigners residing abroad. Authorized banks may transfer funds abroad from these accounts up to the amount in foreign exchange previously transferred and sur- rendered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the ac- quisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property is sold; the re- mainder may be paid and/or transferred in five equal installments. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 EGYPT Capital and operations accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 of July 1989. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free market, and funds purchased from the free ac- counts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisi- bles, and financing of local expenditures). Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade for- mulates long-term export and import policies and prepares indicative annual export and import plans. Both public and private entities are allowed to trade with all countries with which Egypt main- tains a bilateral payments agreement. All imports financed by the Central Bank are ef- fected at the free market rate, with the exception of imports under the bilateral payments agreement, which are effected at a more appreciated rate. Import payments in foreign exchange by the pri- vate sector are effected through the commercial banks or through importers' own foreign exchange resources. All products may be freely imported, with the exception of a few items, such as inputs for industrial production, which may be incorporated with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. For customs purposes, products are classified into eight groups, on which tariff rates range from 5 per- cent to 70 percent (with several exceptions). In 1994, the unweighted statutory average rate was 28 per- cent, excluding alcoholic beverages, and 34 percent, including alcoholic beverages. Surcharges at the rates of 2 percent and 5 percent are levied on most imports. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks and other agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange may sell without restric- tion foreign currencies for payments for invisibles to the Government, public authorities, the public and private sectors, and companies established un- der the domestic investment regime, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Law. Travelers may not take out more than LE 1,000 in domestic banknotes but are permitted to take out foreign banknotes and other instruments of payment in foreign currency without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from a limited number of products re- quired for the national economy that may be re- stricted, exports may be effected without license. Exports of cotton, rice, and petroleum are no longer a public sector monopoly. There are no repatriation requirements. Proceeds from exports by the private and public sectors to the bilateral payments agreement country (i.e., Sudan) are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in ac- cordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in free accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may im- port up to LE 1,000 in Egyptian banknotes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts of foreign exchange. Capital Proceeds of sales of Egyptian and foreign securi- ties registered at the stock market in Egypt may be transferred through the free market for foreign ex- change. The same treatment is applied to the transfer of income earned from Egyptian securities and profits owed to foreigners from investments in projects established in Egypt. Payments for real estate that foreigners are al- lowed to own must be made in convertible curren- cies. Proceeds from sales of property owned in Egypt by foreigners or their heirs must be depos- ited in a special capital account in the name of the foreign seller at an authorized bank. The authorized bank may transfer funds abroad from the account, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of foreign exchange units previously transferred and surrendered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property was sold; the remainder may be paid and/or transferred in five equal annual installments. The ratio of foreign currency liabilities to for- eign currency assets of authorized commercial banks is subject to a maximum limit of 105 percent, and the open foreign exchange posi- tion for a single currency and for all currencies combined is subject to limits of 10 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of their capital. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers may maintain foreign exchange working balances of up to $225,000 for the first LE 1 million of paid-up capital and up to $295,000 for each LE 1 million after the first LE 1 million of paid-up capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 155 Gold Payments for Invisibles Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. August 4. The limit on the amount of domestic banknotes that travelers may take out of the coun- try was raised to LE 1,000 from LE 100. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control June 3. A foreign exchange law came into effect. Prescription of Currency November 30. An account containing unsettled payment orders related to the bilateral payments agreement with the Russian Federation was closed. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The maximum tariff rate was reduced to 70 percent from 80 percent, and the rates above 30 percent were reduced by 10 percentage points. In addition, the tariff rates on some capital goods were reduced to 10 percent or 5 percent. February 14. Import surcharges at the rates of 2 per- cent and 5 percent were imposed on most imports. June 9. The requirement that an importer must furnish documentation establishing that importing actually took place was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds June 9. The repatriation requirements for pro- ceeds from exports were eliminated. Proceeds from Invisibles August 4. The limit on the amount of domestic banknotes that travelers may bring into the country was raised to LE 1,000 from LE 100. Capital June 3. A number of restrictions on the purchase of assets were eliminated. In addition, the regula- tion governing the transfers of proceeds from sales of real estate by nonresidents was modified. July 12. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers may maintain foreign exchange working balances of up to $225,000 for the first LE 1 million of paid-up capital and up to $295,000 for each LE 1 million af- ter the first LE 1 million of paid-up capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Col6n, the external value of which is set by com- mercial banks and exchange houses at a rate deter- mined by supply and demand conditions. The Central Reserve Bank establishes the daily ex- change rates, which are applied to its transactions with the public sector, and the calculation of tax ob- ligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses of the previous working day. In addition, the Central Reserve Bank may purchase or sell foreign exchange to commercial banks and exchange houses at the rate prevailing in the mar- ket at the time of the transaction. On December 31,1994, the Central Reserve Bank's buying and selling exchange rates were C8.71 and, C8.71 respectively, per US$1; the average buying and selling exchange rates of commercial banks were (28.71 and £8.78, respectively, per US$1, and the average buying and selling rates of exchange houses were (18.71 and C8.79, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official, commercial banking, or exchange house sector. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Reserve Bank in accordance with its organic law. All private sector imports and payments for in- visibles are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports of a number of products require permits issued by the Centre de Tr^mites de Exportaci6n (CENTREX). The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with autho- rized banks. Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make pay- ments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are also not re- stricted. The commercial banks are required to sub- mit periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank on the use of such accounts. The reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits is 50 percent com- pared with 30 percent on checking deposits and 20 percent on savings deposits in national currency. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, in- cluding gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, pro- pane and butane gas, cloth and jute sacks, sugar, and molasses. The commercial banks and exchange houses are authorized to make payments for private imports. Payments for public sector imports and settlements of official lines of credit are made by the commer- cial banks and the Central Reserve Bank after de- posits have been made in local currency to cover the full value of credit. Import tariffs range from 5 percent to 20 percent although some products, such as automobiles, alco- holic drinks, textiles, and luxury items, are subject to an import tariff of 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (e.g., medical treatment and study and travel abroad) are free of restrictions, and the authority to grant for- eign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the com- mercial banks and exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds CENTREX issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. All exports, irrespective of value, must be registered. Export permits are issued by the Ministry of Economy and 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 157 are required for diesel fuel and liquefied petroleum gas. Proceeds from exports of goods must be surren- dered to the commercial banks; proceeds from ex- ports outside of Central America amounting to less than $25,000 may be surrendered to exchange houses. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive a drawback of taxes paid in cash on imported raw materials equiv- alent to 6 percent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Since December 1992, proceeds from exports of coffee have been subject to an income tax, which re- placed the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to commercial banks or exchange houses. Capital Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be reg- istered with the Ministry of Economy but are not restricted. Outward remittance of interest and am- ortization on external loans may be made without restriction. Act No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resident shareholders. This act defines foreign residents as persons residing in El Salvador who are not citizens of one of the five member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM).1 Gold Gold coins in the denomination of C2,500 have been issued as legal tender. Residents and nonresi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins for numis- matic purposes. Gold coins in denominations of C25, C50, C100, and C200 have been issued as le- gal tender but do not circulate. These coins are not available for sale and exist only for numismatic purposes in the Central Reserve Bank collection. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are not restricted. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds May 1. The 50 percent surrender requirement on proceeds from coffee exports was eliminated. December 19. The Foreign Exchange Electronic Negotiation System (SINED) was introduced to im- prove the competitiveness and transparency of the foreign exchange market. Commercial banks, ex- change houses, and the Central Reserve Bank par- ticipate in this system and conduct foreign exchange transactions at the rates determined by supply and demand conditions. Member countries of the CACM are Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the in- tervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also offi- cially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled re- payments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agen- cies for official missions, and payments of reinsur- ance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equatorial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its over- seas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Ac- count Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating lrThe CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Ac- count country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign ac- counts in francs. As the BEAC suspended the repur- chase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of autho- rized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of un- interrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. In April 1994, a new tariff structure was intro- duced in the context of the tax and customs reform of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). For UDEAC member countries, the common duty rate for basic necessities was re- 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 159 duced to 5 percent, for raw materials and capital goods to 10 percent, for intermediate and miscella- neous goods to 20 percent, and for consumer goods to 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Fi- nance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident trav- elers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resi- dent travelers, regardless of destination, must de- clare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re- exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a for- eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign ex- change. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating ei- ther the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are lim- ited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two years. The transfer abroad of the salaries of expatri- ates working in Equatorial Guinea is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of expatri- ates working in Equatorial Guinea on a temporary basis, payments of insurance premiums of up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries must be repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the mer- chandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 EQUATORIAL GUINEA quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Under the investment code of April 30,1992 (as modified June 6,1994), a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. These privileges include exemption from import- and ex- port-licensing requirements and free transfer abroad of debt payments and net profits. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equa- torial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and ex- Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Ex- empt from this requirement are (1) imports and ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments April 6. A new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform. The common duty rate adopted by the UDEAC member countries for imported basic necessities was reduced to 5 percent, to 10 percent for raw ma- terials and capital goods, to 20 percent for interme- diate and miscellaneous goods, and to 30 percent for consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The provisional legal tender of Eritrea is the Ethi- opian Birr, which is issued by the National Bank of Ethiopia and is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Br 5.95 per US$1. The official exchange rate ap- plies only to transactions between Eritrea and Ethi- opia that are associated with refinery services. The Bank of Eritrea applies the marginal auction rate determined in the fortnightly auctions conducted by the National Bank of Ethiopia to all aid-funded imports and most service transactions. The mar- ginal rate established in an auction is effective for the two-week period following the auction. There is also a more depreciated preferential exchange rate that is used for the remaining external transactions, including the conversion of foreign exchange remit- tances by Eritreans living abroad, export proceeds, and most imports. The preferential exchange rate is fixed by the authorities, but it is close to the rate quoted in the parallel market. The Bank of Eritrea undertakes transactions with authorized dealers, which in turn carry out transac- tions with the public on its behalf. There is also a limited number of unofficial, but sanctioned, deal- ers that buy and sell foreign exchange at the prefer- ential rate. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar2 are communicated daily by the Bank of Eritrea to the authorized dealers on the ba- sis of same day early morning cross quotations in the London market against the U.S. dollar. For all foreign currency transactions, except transactions involving foreign currency notes, the Bank of Eri- trea prescribes a commission of 0.5 percent for pur- chases of foreign exchange and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. The authorized dealers are permitted, but not obliged, to levy a service charge for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include a margin charge that is applied by the correspondents abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is no forward cover Eritrea became a member of the IMF on July 6,1994. 2At present, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. The Bank of Eritrea intends to start quoting rates for the Danish krone, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona in the near future. provided in foreign exchange by the Bank of Eritrea or the authorized dealers. Administration of Control The Bank of Eritrea, during the transitional pe- riod, is working to ensure that all foreign exchange transactions are effected through the authorized dealers who are licensed in accordance with the Monetary and Banking Proclamation No. 32/1993. Under this proclamation, the Bank of Eritrea may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. Compre- hensive foreign exchange regulations, as well as a new Central Bank Act, have been prepared and submitted for the Government's approval. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Eritrea issues permits only for those imports that re- quire foreign exchange from the banking system. The Ministry of Trade and Industry issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents, and has authority to regulate foreign investments (Investment Proclamation No. 59/1994); it vets and licenses technology transfer agreements, as well as investment projects (including joint ventures) that are eligible to take advantage of the tax, foreign ex- change, and other concessions of the Investment Proclamation. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in currencies quoted by the Bank of Eritrea or in any other convertible cur- rency it deems acceptable. All transactions with Ethiopia, except for those related to the imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab, are settled in the Ethiopian birr. Under the agreement of friendship and coopera- tion, signed by the Presidents of Eritrea and Ethio- pia in September 1993, these two countries undertook to cooperate closely and develop com- mon policies concerning a wide range of issues, in- cluding matters pertaining to their exchange and trade systems. A joint ministerial commission is en- trusted to ensure that implementation of the provi- sions of the agreement, notably its Article 9, which calls for mutual consultation on the use of the Ethi- opian birr and the exploration of the possibilities of adopting a common currency by both countries. In May 1994, a communiqud was issued to further un- 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 ERITREA derscore the need for harmonization and coordina- tion, but no detailed agreement has yet been concluded. An agreement that governs trade between Eritrea and Ethiopia has not yet been concluded. Both Gov- ernments are committed to encourage bilateral trade on a free-market basis, to exempt such trade from customs duties, and to harmonize their cus- toms tariffs, as well as the rules and formalities of trade between both countries, in order to facilitate the exchange, storage, and shipment of goods and transfer of payments. Payments are generally made in the Ethiopian birr, although the Government of Ethiopia has required payments in foreign curren- cies for Eritrea's purchases of Ethiopia's exports, as well as for goods that are in short supply in Ethio- pia. Under an intergovernmental agreement be- tween Eritrea and Ethiopia, Eritrea pays Ethiopia in birr for its domestic requirements of petroleum products. The refinery in Assab is reimbursed in birr for the costs of refining the derivative products consumed by Ethiopia, except that the portion cor- responding to the depreciation of equipment is paid for in foreign exchange. As stipulated under an intergovernmental transit and port services agreement as well as a customs arrangement (amended annually), the port of Assab is a free port for Ethiopia, with its own Ethiopian customs branch office, and goods shipped to or from Ethiopia remain exempt from the Eritrean cus- toms duties and related charges. Procedures for the clearing of goods and the exchange of documenta- tion are to be coordinated, and the port and ship- ping charges are paid in Ethiopian birr. who, in accordance with the regulations of the Bank of Eritrea, may maintain foreign currency accounts in Eritrea, and any individuals earning foreign ex- change in connection with foreign trade. Nonbank residents may not open accounts abroad, except where they are specifically authorized by the Bank of Eritrea. Imports and Import Payments All importers must possess a valid trade license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. These licenses must be renewed each year at a fee of Br 200.3 Import payments made through the bank- ing system require permits that are issued by the Bank of Eritrea upon presentation of pro forma in- voices providing information as to type, quantity, unit price, and freight cost (where applicable). A commission of 2 percent is collected on imports that do not require official foreign exchange and are not aid funded. The Bank of Eritrea ensures full collec- tion of franco valuta commissions by requesting the display of a payment document to the Customs Of- fice at the time of the import declaration. Imports of cars and other motor vehicles require prior permis- sion from the Ministry of Transport to ensure their suitability for existing infrastructure and other sim- ilar considerations. There are no priority and nega- tive lists for imports, except that a public enterprise producing tobacco and matches holds a monopoly over the import of these products. Most imports re- quiring official foreign exchange are effected under letters of credit or on a cash-against-documents ba- sis. Suppliers' credits must be registered by the Bank of Eritrea. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Payments for Invisibles With the approval of the Bank of Eritrea, nonresi- dents may open accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars or in Ethiopian birr with the Commercial Bank of Eritrea. These accounts may be credited with for- eign currencies, apart from exceptional cases that are subject to approval by the Bank of Eritrea. The Bank of Eritrea has also authorized the mainte- nance of interest-bearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Eritreans residing abroad since No- vember 1, 1993. Members of the diplomatic com- munity, welfare organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and their personnel may maintain nonresident accounts denominated in birr. Joint ventures and other business firms that invest their capital wholly or partly in foreign exchange may also maintain nonresident accounts in birr. Residents are not allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts, with the exception of investors Payments for invisibles may be made to all coun- tries with a foreign exchange permit, which is is- sued free of charge by the Bank of Eritrea. The travel allowance for business trips is $50 a person a day for up to 20 days and is limited to no more than two trips a year. In bona fide cases, these limits may be exceeded with the approval of the Bank of Eri- trea. Also, exporters may freely use their retention accounts for this purpose. For personal travel, the allowance is $100 a person (adult or minor) for up to two trips a year. Medical expenses of up to $2,000 for treatment abroad are allowed upon the recom- mendation of the Medical Board of the Ministry of Health. This limit may be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. Residents may remit premiums on *The annual license fee for commercial agents of foreign com- panies is Br 500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 163 life insurance policies that were taken out before May 1991. Upon the approval of the new foreign exchange regulations, foreign investors may freely remit net profits and dividends accrued from investment and fees and royalties in respect of any technology transfer agreements. Foreign employees may remit up to 40 percent of their net earnings each month, and up to 60 percent of their cumulative earnings upon completion of their term of service in Eritrea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The annual licensing fee is Br 300 for producers and Br 500 for the commercial agents of foreign companies. All exports require documentation by the Bank of Eritrea, which exam- ines the sales contracts as to type of product, quan- tity, and unit price. Certain commodities may require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particu- lar, livestock and cereals require the permission of the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require the permission of the Ministry of Marine Resources. Exports of hides and skins have been suspended since mid-1993 in an attempt to improve the supply to domestic tanneries and processors. Exports may be made under a letter of credit or on an advance payments basis; in some cases, ex- ports can be permitted on a consignment basis. All export proceeds must be repatriated to an autho- rized bank within 90 days of shipment; where justi- fied, this deadline can be extended by another 90 days. Exporters may retain up to 100 percent of the sales proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for temporary visitors to Eritrea, all for- eign exchange receipts from current invisibles by residents must be surrendered to authorized deal- ers. However, residents earning foreign exchange from foreign trade, such as consultants and engi- neers working temporarily abroad for foreign com- panies, may on request be permitted by the Bank of Eritrea to hold foreign exchange in Eritrea in inter- est-bearing U.S. dollar accounts provided for non- resident Eritreans, or in accounts abroad. Travelers are not required to declare their foreign exchange holdings at the point of entry into Eritrea and are not allowed to reconvert their balances back into foreign currency upon departure. Capital Foreign exchange proceeds representing capital inflows must be surrendered to the Bank of Eritrea, except for funds deposited in authorized nonresi- dent accounts. Capital inflows must be registered with the Bank of Eritrea in order to ensure the smooth transfer of profits, dividends and interest, amortization of principal, and proceeds of the sale of shares to residents or from the liquidation of investments. Direct foreign investments (including joint ven- tures) in Eritrea are governed by the provisions of the Investment Proclamation No. 59/1994 (which repealed Proclamation No. 18/1991). Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors, except that domestic retail and wholesale trade, and import and commission agencies are open to foreign inves- tors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; the lat- ter condition may be waived by the Government. Approved investments and their subsequent ex- pansion enjoy exemption from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associ- ated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Under the foreign exchange regu- lations submitted to the Government, foreign inves- tors may freely remit proceeds received from liquidation of investment and/or expansion, and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares. Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from pe- troleum operations and pay subcontractors and ex- patriate staff abroad. Foreign borrowing by residents in Eritrea has to be registered with the Bank of Eritrea. Authorized banks are permitted to purchase and hold foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $500,000. Amounts exceeding this limit must be surrendered to the Bank of Eritrea or deposited in the correspon- dent accounts abroad. With the approval of the Bank of Eritrea, authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad. They may acquire securities under similar conditions. Gold Residents may own gold jewelry without restric- tions. Beyond this, ownership or possession of gold or other precious metals or ores requires the autho- rization of the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Water Resources. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Estonia is the Kroon. Since the in- troduction of a currency board system, the convert- ibility of the kroon has been guaranteed by the Bank of Estonia (BOB); the BOB exchanges kroon banknotes and reserve deposits of commercial banks with the BOB into deutsche mark and vice versa at the exchange rate of EEK 8 per DM1. The kroon is fully convertible for all current interna- tional transactions and for virtually all international capital transactions. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely handled by the commercial banks, and commercial banks are free to quote their own exchange rates. Estonia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 15,1994. Administration of Control The authority to issue and enforce foreign ex- change regulations is based on the Central Bank Law. Import and export controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union can be effected through a system of corre- spondent accounts maintained by the BOB with the respective central banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may be used freely by their hold- ers, to purchase either goods or services in the country concerned. In operating these accounts, the Bank of Estonia acts as an intermediary only and does not convert any balances to krooni. Kroon balances held by central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union on their correspondent ac- counts are fully convertible without delay. These agreements also allow for separate decentralized payments arrangements between commercial banks in the respective states and do not provide for swing credits or overdraft facilities. In addi- tion, Estonian exporters and importers may effect payments without undue delays. Settlements with countries with which Estonia maintains bi- lateral payments agreements are effected in ac- cordance with the terms of the agreements.1 Commercial banks in Estonia are permitted and encouraged to open their own correspondent ac- counts with counterpart commercial banks in the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union to effect payments associated with trade with those countries. Estonia maintains outstanding balances on inop- erative correspondent accounts with a number of countries of the former Soviet Union. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Enterprises must obtain a license to open and op- erate foreign exchange accounts with foreign banks abroad; licenses, whose sole purpose is to enforce the monthly reporting requirements, are granted freely. Enterprises need not obtain licenses to open and op- erate foreign currency accounts in domestic banks. Imports and Exports Imports are not subject to licensing requirements or quantitative restrictions. Import tariffs of 16 per- cent are levied on fur and fur goods and of 10 per- cent on automobiles, bicycles, launches, and yachts.2 In addition, imports are subject to a 0.5 percent ad valorem fee to cover the cost of ad- ministrative processing and are subject to an 18 per- cent value-added tax, which is also levied on domestically produced goods. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco products are subject to excise taxes lev- ied, at point of entry by the customs authority, at the following rates: wine, 20 percent; vodka, 100 percent; and raw tobacco and cigarettes, 40 percent. Quantitative restrictions on exports have been completely eliminated with the removal on October 18,1994 of the remaining quotas on gravel, specialized clay, and quartz sand. Export duties ap- ply only to items of cultural value at a rate of up to 100 percent. The exportation of metals is subject to state monopoly; private exports of metal are subject to licenses. In addition, all exports are subject to an ad valorem fee of 0.5 percent to cover the cost of ad- ministrative processing. *At the end of 1993, Estonia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyigyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. 2These tariffs are planned to be replaced by domestic excise taxes in 1995. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 165 Enterprises are not required to repatriate export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no regulations governing payments for or proceeds from invisibles. The importation and exportation of domestic banknotes are not restricted. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers are not controlled or restricted. Gold International and domestic trade in gold is sub- ject to the licensing requirement administered by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement August 15. Estonia formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 23. Individuals were permitted to open foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks. Imports and Exports January 1. The ban on exports of oil shale was abolished. October 18. The remaining export quotas on gravel, clay, and quartz sand were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: the official rate and the auction rate. The official ex- change rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar and is ad- justed occasionally on the basis of the marginal rates derived from the auctions. It is applied to imports of petroleum products, fertilizers, pharma- ceutical goods, Ethiopia's contributions to interna- tional organizations, and external debt-service payments. On December 31, 1994, the official ex- change rate was Br 5.95 per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are set daily by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) on the basis of both the auction rate and the official ex- change rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency against the U.S. dollar in London. The auction rate is determined in a biweekly auction (Dutch type), with successful bidders receiving an allocation of foreign exchange based on the exchange rate contained in their bids. The marginal exchange rate from the auction ("secondary market exchange rate") serves as the exchange rate until the next auction for all current and capital transactions outside the auction, except for transactions to which the official exchange rate applies. It is applied to all foreign exchange inflows and to foreign exchange provided by the National Bank outside the auction market for limited ex- penses, including tuition fees, medical treatment abroad, business travel, and personal remittances by expatriate workers. On December 31, 1994, the marginal exchange rate was Br 6.25 per US$1. All licensed importers are allowed to submit bids to the auction if foreign exchange is to be used to import goods that are not included on a negative list. Applicants must deposit 100 percent of the birr equivalent in advance. Authorized dealers must ob- serve a prescribed commission of 0.50 percent on buying and 1.50 percent on selling, the proceeds of which accrue to the National Bank. Dealers are au- thorized to levy service charges of up to 0.25 per- cent on buying and 0.75 percent on selling for their own accounts. For currencies other than the U.S. dollar, dealers are authorized to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. The commission and service charges are also ap- plied by the National Bank in its dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized dealer under the control of the National Bank. The Exchange Controller of the National Bank issues exchange licenses for all exports and payments abroad and issues permits for all shipments. The Minister of Trade formulates external trade policy. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Eritrea, except those relating to imports of spare parts for the refinery in Assab, Eritrea, are made in birr. The net proceeds of exports must be surrendered in a freely convertible foreign currency or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks upon ap- proval of the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. Deposits to these accounts must be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on non- resident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad, and transfers between nonresi- dent accounts do not require prior approval. Mem- bers of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransferable birr accounts for payment of local expenses. Joint ventures are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts or trans- ferable or nontransferable birr accounts to purchase raw materials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of the entry of the goods purchased with such funds must be sub- mitted to the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. In general, these accounts may be 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 167 replenished only after the documents have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents maintained with authorized banks are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see the section on Capital, below). Resi- dent Ethiopian nationals are not allowed to main- tain a bank account abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments abroad for imports require exchange li- censes, which can be obtained when a valid im- porter's license is presented. Applications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by infor- mation on costs and payment terms and by evi- dence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particu- larly for goods imported under letters of credit. For- eign exchange is not made available for imports included in a negative list. Most goods on this nega- tive list may, however, be imported under the franco valuta arrangement (i.e., imports are financed with foreign exchange from external sources) without a license. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Minister of Transport and Communications, and authorization is readily granted without restriction if the imports are fi- nanced with foreign exchange balances held abroad. Exchange licenses are granted in the cur- rency appropriate to the country of origin or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Pay- ments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash-against- documents basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an accep- tance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and in- termediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and ma- chinery and transport equipment. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings but only for the first three years of their contract if eriiployed by the private sector; they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earn- ings during the period of service and upon final de- parture. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign na- tionals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad for business purposes related to importing or exporting are granted for- eign exchange up to $120 a day for a maximum pe- riod of 20 days in any one calendar year; for other business travel, the limits for tourism are applied. For tourism purposes, persons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to $50 a trip with a maximum of two trips a year. For government travel, the schedule of rates varies by country and city based on cost of living. Students are allowed foreign ex- change up to the equivalent of Br 1,200 to study abroad. With approval of the Ministry of Education, Ethiopian nationals with dependents pursuing higher studies at accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and rea- sonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and verification by a medi- cal board and the Ministry of Health, residents may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to Br 30,000 for medical treatment and travel abroad. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethio- pian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an ex- porter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c.Lf. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see the section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of raw hides and skins are regulated or prohibited until the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 ETHIOPIA needs of local factories are met. The exportation of coffee is subject to a coffee export duty at the rate of Br 15 a quintal, a coffee export cess at the rate of Br 5 a quintal, and a coffee surtax. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency and must declare any foreign exchange in their possession entering Ethiopia. Ex- cept for short-term visitors, travelers must have authorization to re-export foreign exchange. Recon- version of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, prevent an unwarranted accumu- lation of external debt, and keep the authorities in- formed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Authorization of the Exchange Controller is required for repatriation of capital, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes the evi- dence of inflows that is required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate docu- mentation, foreign businessmen with nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an autho- rized bank. This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 (of July 5, 1989) and invest- ments made under Proclamation No. 15/1992 (of May 25,1992). Transfers by emigrants who have op- erated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a major- ity share in a joint venture, except in certain sectors: precious metals, public utilities, telecommunica- tions, banking and insurance, transport, and trade in selected products deemed essential to the econ- omy by law. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Investment Office; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemp- tion from customs duties and other specified im- port levies. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the ac- tivities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) may be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convert- ible currency payments in respect of debt con- tracted and fees or royalties in respect of technology transfer agreements. Borrowing abroad requires approval from the Ex- change Control Department and is restricted. Au- thorized banks may freely place their funds abroad except on fixed-term deposit but may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the permission of the National Bank. In addition, they need prior approval from the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspon- dents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specif- ically authorized by the Minister of Mines and En- ergy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethi- opian Mineral Resources Development Corporation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange li- censes issued by the National Bank Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The official exchange rate was adjusted to reach 85 percent of the average of the marginal auc- tion rates of the preceding month. May 16. The official exchange rate was adjusted to reach 90 percent of the average of the marginal auction rates of the preceding month. November 7. The official exchange rate was ad- justed to reach 95 percent of the average of the mar- ginal auction rates of the preceding month. Imports and Import Payments September 26. The negative list of imports to which auction exchange rates apply was short- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 169 ened, with textiles, perfumes, beverages, tobacco products, television and radio receivers, and used materials remaining the principal items on this list. Payments for Invisibles April 19. The regulations related to availability of foreign exchange for business and government travel were modified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket consisting of the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The weights in the formula are reviewed annually; the most recent revision was made in April 1993. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1994, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.409 per US$1. The Reserve Bank provides offi- cial quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for for- ward periods of up to six months for exports and nine months for imports. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4,1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank acting as agent of the Government; the Re- serve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the au- thority to approve normal import payments, and other current payments and transfers up to speci- fied limits or full amounts in some cases. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji dollars through an ex- ternal account or in any foreign currency.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts A nonresident may open and operate an external account in Fiji dollars or a foreign currency account 1Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 170 with an authorized dealer without specific ap- proval from the Reserve Bank.2 These accounts may be credited freely with the account holder's salary (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, with payments from other external accounts, with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of for- eign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Exporters may retain up to 10 percent of proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds for import payments (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general li- cense; imports of bulk butter and lubrication oil products in any form require a specific license. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, and butter. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for butter by the Ministry of Primary Industries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by various government departments and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national coopera- tive societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific island countries. The importation of a few commodities from all sources is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may approve advance 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. For individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived, or intends to continue living, in Fiji for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 171 payments for imports of up to F$50,000 an applica- tion without specific approval from the Reserve Bank, if such payments are required by the supplier. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted under a delegated authority to authorized dealers up to specific limits, as follows: (1) family maintenance expenses, F$4,000 a year; (2) subscription payments for clubs, societies, and trade organizations, F$5,000 an application; (3) travel allowances, F$6,000 an ap- plicant a trip; (4) payments of royalties, commis- sions, patents, brokerage, and copyrights, F$l 0,000 an application; (5) gift remittances, F$500 a donor a year; and (6) professional fees, F$10,000 a year a beneficiary. The use of credit cards for travel-related expenses is not restricted, except for a F$2,000 limit on its use for shopping on each trip; in addition, F$400 a month may be withdrawn in cash. Emi- grants are allowed to transfer, after one year abroad, the full amount of the current year's divi- dends or profits earned on assets left in Fiji. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is not re- quired to make the following payments if they are accompanied by supporting documentary proof: (1) for medical treatment and for educational expenses, up to F$10,000, in addition to tuition fees, direct to the institution; (2) wage payments by shipping companies to foreign crew members, up to F$20,000; (3) advertising fees, up to F$10,000; (4) payments of charges for movie film rental and news services; and (5) proceeds from the maturity of life insurance, up to F$l 5,000 an applicant, subject to completion of emigration procedures with the Re- serve Bank. Amounts exceeding the established limits may be granted with the approval of the Re- serve Bank upon presentation of documents certify- ing that the payments, are bona fide. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain per- mission from the Reserve Bank to transfer divi- dends abroad. Under the present policy, remittance of the current year's profits and two years' retained earnings that have not previously been remitted is allowed. The remittance abroad of rent accruing on properties owned by emigrants is permitted as part of the transfers of F$25,000 an emigrant is allowed to make every six months (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, cer- tain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for com- mercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are re- quired to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. At least 90 percent of the value of 1993 ex- port proceeds must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer; up to 10 percent of 1993 export proceeds may be kept in foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or a foreign bank abroad with approval from the Reserve Bank; the rate of retention from each export receipt is not subject to control. Payments are admissible for im- ports of raw materials, professional and manage- ment fees, loan repayments, and remittances of profits and dividends. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely Fijian and foreign currency banknotes, but must de- clare them to customs or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on de- parture. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered semiannually unless approval for reinvestment abroad has been granted by the Reserve Bank. Capital Repatriation of capital funds sources from, or withdrawal of foreign investment in, Fiji requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank, which is readily granted with evidence that the investment funds originated offshore. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a non- resident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Special tax incentives and concessions are granted for invest- ments that qualify under Fiji's Tax Free Factory Zone status, and an investment allowance similar to that for hotels is provided for large-outlay invest- ment projects that support the tourist industry. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in full the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on investments of up to F$5 mil- lion a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 FIJI The transfer of inheritances and dowries owed to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on de- parture is limited to F$125/000 for a family and F$75,000 for a single person; thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$25,000 every six months commencing six months after em- igration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred; emigrants intending to leave Fiji within 12 months are allowed to transfer up to F$l 00,000 a family and up to F$50,000 a single person. Nonresidents de- parting Fiji permanently may remit up to F$250,000 on departure and thereafter up to F$50,000 every six months. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been temporarily suspended. The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Authorized dealers may lend up to F$100,000 to a newly established company or a branch of a com- pany in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled di- rectly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji and up to F$30,000 to individual nonresident customers; individual nonresident borrowers must repay their loans before leaving Fiji. Any amounts in excess of these limits require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Residents must ob- tain prior permission from the Reserve Bank to bor- row foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. Individuals are allowed to invest up to a maxi- mum of F$5,000 a family a year offshore for a total of up to F$10 million as follows: F$5 million in foreign currency and F$5 million in securities to acquire foreign currency securities. Nonbank finan- cial institutions are allowed to invest offshore up to F$15 million on approval. Local companies are al- lowed to remit up to F$300,000 to set up sales office or subsidiaries abroad. The proceeds from the sale or realization of such investment must be sold to authorized dealers. Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins, but not gold bullion, in Fiji. The exporta- tion of gold coins, except numismatic coins and col- lectors' pieces, requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific im- port license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are restricted to autho- rized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bullion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to 10 percent value-added tax (VAT). Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but subject to a 10 percent VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 3 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Transactions eligible for the forward exchange contracts concluded by authorized deal- ers were extended to include payments for divi- dends and services. November 11. Provision of forward cover facility to the commercial banks by the Reserve Bank of Fiji was suspended. Resident and 'Nonresident Accounts January 1. The limit on deposits that expatriates are permitted to make in their external accounts was increased to F$20,000 a family from the sale of assets upon departure from Fiji. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The limit on advance payments for im- ports that commercial banks are authorized to make was raised to F$50,000 from F$10,000. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The limit on travel allowances that commercial banks are authorized to provide was in- creased to F$6,000 from F$4,000 an applicant a trip. January 1. The limit on the use of credit cards for shopping was increased to F$2,000 from F$l,000 for each trip. January 1. In addition to tuition fees for education, commercial banks were authorized to provide up to F$10,000 a year for students' living allowances. January 1. The limit on subscription payments that commercial banks are authorized to provide was raised to F$5,000 from F$l,000 a subscription. January 1. Commercial banks were authorized to pay up to F$15,000 an applicant in proceeds from life insurance that has reached maturity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 173 January 1. Commercial banks were authorized to pay the full amount due on re-insurance and pre- mium payments. January 1. Commercial banks were authorized to pay up to F$10,000 a year a beneficiary for profes- sional fees. January 1. The limit on profit remittances by com- panies was increased to F$5 million from F$l million a year. The limit on local companies' remittances to set up sales offices or subsidiaries abroad was in- creased to F$300,000 from F$200,000. Capital January 1. Commercial banks were permitted to lend up to F$100,000 to new and existing compa- nies controlled by nonresidents. January 1. Nonbank institutions were allowed to invest up to a maximum of F$15 million offshore. January 1. Individuals were allowed to invest off- shore F$5,000 a family up to a total of F$10 million in foreign currency deposits and securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 33,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka, the external value of which is determined on the ba- sis of underlying supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. The Finnish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions. On December 31,1994, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Fmk 4.7432 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. For- ward premiums and discounts quoted by autho- rized banks reflect interest rate differentials in the countries of the currencies concerned. The Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 25,1979. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and ex- port licensing are administered mainly by a special unit in the Ministry of Trade and Industry. This unit is headed by a board composed of government offi- cials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Finland notified the Fund on July 6,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency or through convertible accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported without a license. However, an import license is required for certain ag- ricultural products including those imported under bilateral trade agreements, foodstuffs, fish, fodder, and cut flowers. A monitoring license is required for im- ports of certain steel products. In addition, all imports from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and all textile imports and imports of certain plastic prod- ucts from Taiwan Province of China require a license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible restricted. transactions are not Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not subject to ex- change control. Export licenses are required only for exports of metal ships to be scrapped and goods related to international export control regimes. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are not subject to controls. The funds may be held in a domestic for- eign currency account in Finland. The importation of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins is unrestricted. Capital Capital transactions, except the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in Finland, are allowed without restriction. Permits are required if the property is to be used for a vacation dwelling. Restrictions on for- eign ownership in Finnish companies have been lifted, but a monitoring system concerning the acqui- sition of the largest companies by foreigners has been put in place. The system is intended to provide the Government an opportunity to intervene if important national interests are considered to be in jeopardy. The international banking activities of authorized Finnish banks are free from regulation and subject only to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 175 Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The export levy on corn was suspended until the end of 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Ger- many, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism (ERM) of the European Mone- tary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the cen- tral rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1994, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per. Francs Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Austrian schillings Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner Deutsche mark Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 65.35450 41.05330 18.88000 102.10000 389.48000 9.38950 345.65000 3.93700 4.92250 14.00500 75.72000 288.81000 6.96400 256.35000 2.91990 3.65050 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Indicative rates for 21 currencies are pub- 1Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1,1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ± 2.25 percent to ± 15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuational band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ± 2.25 percent. 3Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 3.79920 and 2.51770. 4Erfective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 4.57780 and 3.38510. lished daily by the central bank on the basis of mar- ket rates/ On December 31, 1994, the rate was F 5.3350 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the over- seas territories of French Polynesia, New Cale- donia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the two CFA francs, which are the currencies of two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account.6 These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F 0.055 and CFAF 1 per F 0.01, respectively. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, including non- enterprise individuals, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control All exchange control regulations have been phased out on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of De- cember 29,1989. The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of the Economy is the coordinating agency for finan- cial relations with foreign countries. It is responsi- ble for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over mat- Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and new zaires. ^enin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiere Africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere Afrique centrale, issued by the BEAC). 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 177 ters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate Gen- eral of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes im- port and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE). Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain re- sponsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and technical assistance contracts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.7 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident foreign accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All residents, including individuals and enter- prises not engaged in international trade, are per- mitted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, accounts denominated in foreign currency in France or abroad, and accounts denominated in French francs abroad. Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, in- cluding French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all restric- tions on overdrafts and advances on nonresident- held franc accounts have been lifted. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency ac- counts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods that originate in other countries and that are subject to quantitative restrictions re- quire individual licenses. Some imports from non- EU countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, ex- Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Cale- donia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Futuna Islands). ceptionally, an import license. Certain imports re- quire certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are di- vided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) coun- tries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, and Western Samoa; (2) some specified countries;8 and (3) China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mon- golia. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be im- ported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a num- ber of agricultural and electronic products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from different countries in this group. Imports of certain indus- trial products from countries in group (2) are re- stricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (for petroleum and petro- leum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally ne- gotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantita- tive restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols but do require a customs document, which constitutes the customs declaration. For some liber- alized imports, an administrative visa issued by the 8the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhu- tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Ko- rea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 FRANCE Central Customs Administration or by the appro- priate ministry is required on an import declara- tion. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such admin- istrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual im- port licenses. These are granted up to quotas deter- mined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified coun- tries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through desig- nated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EU-wide restrictions and national restrictions. The former include bilaterally agreed restrictions on tex- tile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agricultural and industrial products negotiated at the EU level. EU-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authoriza- tion. National restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EU are enforced through temporary import restrictions authorized by the EU Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EU (e.g., industry-to- industry understandings that do not directly involve member governments), import restrictions are en- forced through national import licensing or stan- dards and certification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under sur- veillance at either the EU or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a foreign account in francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market, or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All residents and international trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit bal- ance. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compen- sation of debts or claims, or by banknotes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authorization, permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported for statistical purposes but are not restricted as to amount. Regis- tered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without limitation. Remittances abroad for family support and donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of for- eign or domestic banknotes resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out, but amounts exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to cus- toms upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if their total value does not exceed F 10,000 (F 100,000 for art objects or collectors' items), they may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exporters are allowed to cover forward for an un- limited period and may hold foreign currency ac- counts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such ad- vances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered ex- ports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from transactions in invisibles may be retained. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any for- eign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or more, however, must be declared to customs upon arrival. At the re- quest of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes is- sued by those countries may not be exchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 179 Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely. Residents' capital assets abroad are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresident- owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capi- tal assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a for- eign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier may also be sold in France, and the sale proceeds may be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but may not be dealt with or exported unless they have been de- posited. Foreign securities held in France by resi- dents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign se- curities abroad under the control of a French regis- tered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment, residents may purchase abroad, through registered banks abroad, French and foreign securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad but may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24,1968 or later) may import them into France through a reg- istered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct in- vestments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, as amended by Decree No. 92-134 of February 1992, which applies to financial relations with all countries except Monaco and those belonging to the Operations Account Area. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one-third of the capital is considered direct in- vestment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is re- duced to 20 percent of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a com- pany is under foreign control, the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. EU or non-EU investments in new firms are not subject to a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. The following foreign in- vestments, however, do not require increases in capital of subsidiaries in which foreign ownership or voting rights exceed 66.66 percent: loans and transactions involving less than F 10 million in craft trades; retail trade; hotels; restaurants; various com- mercial services; quarries and gravel pits; and ac- quisitions of agricultural lands, except vineyards and wine-making properties. Juridical and natural persons may freely invest in any project that is at least 50 percent owned by juridical and natural per- sons residing in the EU, but the completion of the project must be reported to the Ministry of Econ- omy. Investments of EU groups having permanent recognition of EU status are not subject to any prior declaration and are required only to report to the Ministry of Economy within 20 days of completion. The Minister of Economy may issue a finding within one month to prohibit the EU investment if public health, order, security, or national security is considered to be in danger. Non-EU investments of less than F 50 million, if the turnover of the ac- quired firm is less than F 500 million, are not re- stricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy before completion. The Minister of Econ- omy may issue a finding within 30 days, at the maximum, to prohibit the investment if public health, order, security, or national security is consid- ered to be in danger. The Minister of the Economy is allowed a one month period, at the maximum, during which a non-EU investment can be suspended if the invest- ment involves more than F 50 million or if the turn- over of the acquired firm is more than F 500 million. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct in- vestments by residents are not restricted, but if such investments exceed F 5 million, they must be re- ported to the Bank of France within 20 days. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corre- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 FRANCE spending funds, if they exceed F 5 million, are re- ported to the Bank of France. Foreign issues on the French capital market, ex- cept issues originating in EU countries, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already offi- cially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign currencies by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, is unrestricted. Applica- tion of the controls over direct investment and bor- rowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms engaged pri- marily in real estate business. Lending in French francs to nonresidents is not restricted. Registered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short- term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the reg- ulations applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold- filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock ex- change. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to a value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to a capital gains tax. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occured in the exchange and trade system during 1994. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quo- tations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commissions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own ac- counts and on all private capital transfers to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, na- tional accounting offices, national and interna- tional public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activi- ties. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Ga- bon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equato- rial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered for- eign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, ^he CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Camer- oon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equa- torial Guinea. Budget, and Participations, who has partly dele- gated approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermedi- aries—that is, the Postal Administration and autho- rized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by foreign correspondents' authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities, with the exception of refined vegetable oil, which requires prior approval. All imports whose value exceeds CFAF 500,000 from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to autho- rization. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, min- eral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to sim- plify administrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 GABON licensing, but, with a few exceptions2 that are estab- lished by ministerial order, import authorizations are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. All imports of com- mercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. Effective January 30, 1994, a new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs reform. The common duty rates of the UDEAC member countries were reduced to 5 per- cent for basic necessities, to 10 percent for raw mate- rials and capital goods, to 20 percent for intermediate goods, and to 30 percent for consumer goods. Quantitative restrictions on the importation of edible oils, bottled water, soap, and cement were lifted with effect from July 5. Quantitative restric- tions on the importation of sugar remain in effect. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income, in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties, accru- ing to nonresidents are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments other than banknotes. Allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a Currently totaling about thirty items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vegeta- ble oil. maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and busi- ness travel. Bona fide requests for travel allowances in excess of the existing limits have been granted. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon ar- rival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresi- dent traveler is not restricted, subject to documenta- tion that they were purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days of the ar- rival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a for- eign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. All export taxes, other than those on min- ing and forestry products, have been eliminated; the taxes on mining and forest products are 0.5 per- cent and 5-11 percent, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 183 countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Ac- count Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries exceeding CFAF 500,000 are restricted and require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions, but capital receipts from these countries are permit- ted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Gabon; these controls apply to the transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations unless they take the form of a capital increase re- sulting from reinvestment of undistribute4 profits; the full or partial liquidation of investments must also be declared to the Ministry unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Gabon 4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase re- including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those that are made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. Including those made by companies in Gabon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. suiting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declara- tion, the Ministry may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the ministry within 20 days of the oper- ation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Govern- ment; and (2) shares similar to securities whose is- suing, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a di- rect investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans di- rectly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions ei- ther between Gabon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. However, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization and each repay- ment must be declared to the Directorate of Finan- cial Institutions within 20 days of the operation unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 mil- lion or less. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 GABON Participations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. However, loans that are free of authorization and each repayment must be de- clared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether do- mestic or foreign, is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified income. In addition to fiscal privileges, the code provides for four categories of preferential treat- ment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given pri- ority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Ga- bonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on be- half of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). The exportation of gold is the mo- nopoly of the Soci£t£ gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minferes. However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization require- ments are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments January 30. A new tariff structure was introduced in the context of the UDEAC tax and customs re- form. The common duty rates of the UDEAC mem- ber countries were reduced to 5 percent for basic necessities, to 10 percent for raw materials and cap- ital goods, to 20 percent for intermediate goods, and to 30 percent for consumer goods. July 5. Quantitative restrictions on the importa- tion of edible oils, bottled water, soap, and cement were lifted and replaced by a temporary surtax of 30 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds July 5. All export taxes, other than those on min- ing and forestry products, were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bu- reaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with cus- tomers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign ex- change market review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. Dur- ing this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate for customs valuation purposes for the following week. On December 31, 1994, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 9.5785 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Gambia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as from January 21,1993. transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for pur- chases of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or secu- rity reasons. All other imports are freely permitted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to de- clare foreign currency in their possession. Administration of Control Exports and Export Proceeds The Exchange Control Act was repealed in No- vember 1992, and no exchange controls are in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received from nonresident sources in dalasis or in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Be- nin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external ac- counts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can take place without individual licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian banknotes. Capital Inward transfers for purposes of direct equity in- vestment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the CBG is not required for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Commercial banks may provide overdraft facili- ties to members of diplomatic and international missions in The Gambia. Since the repeal of the Ex- change Control Act in November 1992, loans and advances by commercial banks to nonresidents no longer require authorization from the CBG. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks and exchange bureaus are subject to limits set 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 THE GAMBIA by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank market or offered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a weekly basis and transactions must be re- ported daily to the CBG. In addition, The Gambia Telecommunication Company (GamTel), which is a parastatal organization, is temporarily permitted to maintain limited working balances in foreign ex- change. The limits must be observed on a monthly basis, and the amounts held must be reported within the same period to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered to a com- mercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion re- quires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Georgia is the Georgian Coupon (GEK), the external value of which is determined in fixing sessions that are held at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange, in which the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and the major commercial banks participate.2 The official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble are determined in these sessions. The official rates are determined for convertible currencies on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international mar- ket. For the currencies of the Baltic countries, rates are determined on the basis of the official cross rates for the Russian ruble as published by the Central Bank of Russia. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the Govern- ment and enterprises and other legal entities. At the end of December 1994, the official exchange rate quoted by the NBG for the U.S. dollar was GEK 1.28 million per US$1. For all commercial transactions, the exchange rates of the coupon are negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the of- ficial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The NBG is responsible for administering ex- change control regulations, which are formulated in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. Decree No. 259 of March 5,1992, First-Stage of Liberaliza- tion of Foreign Exchange Activity, established the legal basis for the conduct of foreign economic ac- tivities in Georgia. The main provisions of this de- cree (1) allow all enterprises to engage directly in foreign trade, (2) allow all residents to acquire and !On April 5,1993, the National Bank of Georgia began to issue coupons to circulate along with the Russian ruble; on August 3, 1993, the Georgian coupon was declared sole legal tender. 2The frequency of the auction was increased from once to twice a week from mid-September 1994. hold foreign currency and engage in foreign trans- actions with a licensed foreign exchange dealer, and (3) authorize banks to open foreign exchange ac- counts for all residents. Trade with countries other than the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is controlled by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Rela- tions (SCFER) (Decree No. 265 of March 31,1993 on Quotas and Licensing of Merchandise Trade). The NBG has the authority to issue general for- eign exchange licenses to banks that will permit them to engage in foreign exchange transactions with residents and nonresidents and to open corre- spondent accounts with banks outside Georgia. The NBG also has the authority to issue internal licenses to banks that will permit them to engage in the same range of foreign exchange transactions as gen- eral license holders, except that holders of internal licenses may not open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. All transfers of foreign exchange by holders of internal licenses must be carried out through correspondent accounts held either with the NBG or with a bank that holds a general license. As of the end of December 1994,35 banks held gen- eral licenses, while 88 banks held internal licenses. The NBG also has the authority to issue licenses for the establishment of exchange bureaus to engage in cash transactions of all kinds. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made in some cases through a system of correspon- dent accounts and in others, in convertible cur- rency Settlements with countries (including the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union) with which Georgia main- tains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Settle- ments with other countries may be made in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises are permit- ted to open and operate foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. There are no restrictions on the use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. The opening of for- 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 GEORGIA eign exchange accounts abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and the NBG. Nonresidents may maintain foreign exchange and local currency accounts with banks in Georgia. Imports and Exports There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, and licenses are not required, except for weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceuticals, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the SCFER. A customs duty of 12 percent is levied on all imports, except food items (excluding to- bacco and alcoholic beverages) and imports under barter operations, irrespective of the currency de- nomination of the contract. A customs duty of 20 percent is levied on all imports under barter op- erations but not on imports under government agreements. All imports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Foreign ex- change to pay for imports may be purchased freely from authorized banks at market rates. There is no legal prohibition on exports, but li- censes are required for items such as food and raw materials. Exports of arms, narcotics, precious met- als, and some raw materials are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. Exports of some raw materials may be limited to the quantities available after allocation for domestic consumption has been made or export commitments under bilateral agreements have been met. The licensing of exports is administered by the SCFER, which takes into account whether exports would create shortages of goods in the domestic market and whether quotas under bilateral agree- ments have been, or will be, fulfilled. All exports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Exporters are required to surrender to the NBG 32 percent of proceeds in convertible currencies. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange to make payments for invisible transactions or use foreign exchange balances in their foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations and procedures as those applicable to pro- ceeds from exports. The importation of foreign currency notes is un- restricted, but amounts must be declared on arrival. The exportation of foreign currency notes by non- residents is permitted up to a limit equal to the amount originally imported. The exportation of for- eign currency notes by residents is limited to $500, or its equivalent, without supporting documentation from a commercial bank that the notes were legally obtained and to $4,000 with such documentation. Nominal remittances remain unrestricted. Capital Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration require- ments for monitoring purposes. Gold A license is required to conduct both interna- tional and domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Transactions in the Tbilisi Interbank Cur- rency Exchange were permitted only in cash. September 19. The official and interbank exchange rates were unified, as noncash as well as cash trans- actions were permitted on the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange. Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 1. Restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign currency and coupon currency from bank accounts were lifted. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles October 19. A limit was introduced on the amount of foreign currency notes that residents would be permitted to carry abroad. The limit would be $500 without supporting documentation from a com- mercial bank that notes were legally obtained and $4,000 with such documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany participates with Austria, Belgium, Den- mark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Nether- lands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 The arrangements imply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified interven- tion rates.2 On December 31,1994, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates pen 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Austrian schillings Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 16.5050 12.2410 5.6300 30.4450 34.6250 2.8000 90.7708 1.1740 1.4680 4.1750 22.5750 25.6750 2.0760 86.7800 0.8710 1.0880 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign ex- change market of Frankfurt am Main.5 On Decem- 1Austria became a member of the European Union (EU) on January 1, 1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9, 1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened to ±15 percent from ±2.25 percent around the bilateral exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Nether- lands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 1.1328 and 0.8401. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 1.3650 and 1.0123. 5Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markka a, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders 189 ber 31, 1994, the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.5488 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. Residents and nonresidents may freely ne- gotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of im- ports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics; the Federal Ministry of Finance; the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation; the Federal Office for Economics; the Federal Office for Export Control; the Federal Min- istry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry; the Fed- eral Office for Food and Forestry; the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization; and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign ex- change transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Germany notified the Fund on November 5, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in re- spect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Furthermore, in compliance with UN resolutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of Iraq and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Imports and Import Payments The import list comprises 10,370 statistical posi- tions. Their treatment is as follows: Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GERMANY The importation of 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regarding international trade in tex- tiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilat- eral agreements and regulations of the EU with various supplier countries. Imports of pit coal from countries that are not members of the EU and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) are per- mitted within the framework of an annual global quota. Imports of brown coal are subject to import licensing from countries on country List C6 except Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to an annual global quota of the EU. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EU covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which have in large part replaced previous barriers to im- ports. A new recording system for imports of goods and services from other EU member countries was put in place with the completion of the single Euro- pean market on January 1,1993. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Commod- ity futures may be dealt in freely, and most transit trade transactions may be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related payments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the con- clusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions (for strategic goods), export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual or general licensing. The cus- toms authorities exercise control over export decla- rations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do 6Countries on List C are Albania, the former member coun- tries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) ex- cept China, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. All other countries are on List A or B. not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require a license. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance involving the delivery to residents of non-OECD countries of con- struction drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, if such assistance is for the produc- tion of goods whose exportation requires a license (strategic goods). There are no restrictions on the re- ceipt of payments for services rendered to nonresi- dents. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of bonds denominated in deut- sche mark. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied to the sale of German money market papers and fixed- interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no limi- tations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years. The minimum re- serve ratios on foreign liabilities, which are, in prin- ciple, the same as those applied to domestic liabilities, were reduced effective March 1,1993 and effective March 1, 1994 and are now 5 percent on sight deposits and 2 percent on savings and time deposits. Book liabilities to nonresidents in foreign currency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in for- eign currency with maturities of less than four years. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 191 Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may negotiate with residents or nonresidents, both at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt am Main. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unre- stricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys, while free of customs duty, are subject to value-added tax at the rate of 15 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as im- ports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion carried out on gold exchanges between brokers admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) Capital January 1. In accordance with the coming into force of Stage 2 of the Maastricht Treaty on the EMU, the system of "cash advances" by the Bundesbank to the central and regional authorities was abolished. March 1. The minimum reserve requirements for sight deposits were reduced to 5 percent from be- tween 6.6 percent and 12.1 percent, and domestic and foreign liabilities were subjected to the same rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31,1994) International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. There are no arrangements for forward exchange transactions, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Ghana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 2,1994. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regu- late all imports. The Foreign Transactions Examina- tions Office (FTEO) of the Bank of Ghana records and confirms foreign capital inflows and adminis- ters foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the pri- vate sector are approved and transacted by autho- rized banks without reference to the Bank of Ghana. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi, whose exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. The average exchange rate in this market is used for official valuation purposes but is not al- ways applied by authorized banks in their transac- tions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Rates for certain nonconvertible cur- rencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are ap- plied only to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted nonconvertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. Authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1994, the exchange rate in the interbank market was (21,050 per US$1. Since February 1,1988, any person, bank, or insti- tution licensed by the Bank of Ghana is allowed to operate a foreign exchange bureau. Foreign ex- change bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sell- ers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources. Each foreign ex- change bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide imports and approved services may be funded through the bureaus. With effect from May 17,1991, all authorized foreign exchange dealers (which include some nonbank foreign ex- change bureaus) have been subject to limits on their net open positions in foreign exchange; holdings of foreign exchange in excess of these limits must be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pe- setas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. GHANA 193 missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. It is also available to inter- national institutions and foreign-registered compa- nies operating in Ghana and to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be approved by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible cur- rency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for pur- chases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called official accounts or territorial accounts. They may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents; with transfers from foreign accounts; with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries; and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official ac- counts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents—for example, certain types of capital pro- ceeds—may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, in- cluding for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports have been liberalized, except for those prohibited for reasons of health and security and those prohibited by Ghanaian laws. Effective Janu- ary 14, 1989, all import-licensing requirements were abolished; importers are now required to file an Im- port Declaration Form, which is not subject to ap- proval, through the authorized banks for statistical purposes only. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, while public sector imports must go through the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks on a sight basis. For all imports other than pharmaceutical products and canned, bottled, and other prepacked food products valued at more than $3,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank drafts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are approved and ef- fected by authorized banks, provided that applica- tions are supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas banks for import payments are generally authorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f.o.b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documented. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry a maximum of $3,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. In ad- dition, resident travelers are permitted to carry a maximum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies for direct purchases abroad. How- ever, all bona fide applications in excess of the specified limits are approved. Authorized dealer banks are permitted to remit profits and foreign in- vestments without prior approval from the Bank of Ghana. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to C5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of narcotics and carrots are prohibited, as are goods prohibited by Ghanaian laws. With the exception of cocoa, which is exported through the Cocoa Board, exports of agricultural commodities have been liberalized. Diamonds are exported through the Precious Metal Marketing Corporation and Ghana Consolidated Diamond Company. Ex- ports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is cal- culated as the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the pro- ceeds from their exports within 60 days of ship- ment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to re- tain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds in for- eign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 per- cent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and elec- tricity. However, receipts from the exportation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 GHANA electricity do not have to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings may be held in accounts abroad for financing essential imports or credited to the exporters' foreign exchange ac- counts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are supported by relevant documents, re- tained export earnings may be sold at the foreign exchange bureaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical services, or educational expenses abroad, or for any other approved invisi- ble payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be im- ported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange acquired for the purpose of foreign travel are sub- ject to a processing fee of 0.5 percent. Capital Foreign investors in Ghana require the prior ap- proval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the In- vestment Code of 1981, under which approved in- vestors are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquida- tion, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capi- tal allowances are also available for approved investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Invest- ment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds from sales of foreign ownership to Ghana- ian nationals are permitted to be transferred by au- thorized dealer banks. Under a supplementary investment code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a minerals code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties on imports of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable depreciation or capi- tal allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be re- tained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum qualifying amount of investment capital is $10,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and $100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be ap- proved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evi- dence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are ap- proved provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies do not require approval. Residents who are private persons are not nor- mally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Nonresi- dents may deal in securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange and they may hold up to 10 percent df such security listings. Total holdings of all exter- nal residents in a company may not exceed 14 per- cent. For portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval to switch holdings of securities is- sued by nonresidents. Private sector and commer- cial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for ma- chinery and equipment valued at $100,000 or more. Foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain government guidelines. Lending to non- residents is prohibited, except for export credits, which require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable ex- port-oriented industries to receive external aid, the industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in addition to their regular retention ac- counts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credits and the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and pay- ments out of these accounts. Accounts have also been established for the diamond sector and for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 195 fishing and timber companies financed with suppli- ers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Im- ports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 30 per- cent. The gold mines export their output in semi- refined form. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 2. Ghana formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Arti- cles of Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main intervention currency, and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece and the authorized com- mercial banks participate. In the domestic spot ex- change market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. On December 30,1994, buying and sell- ing rates in the interbank market were Dr 248.472 and Dr 249.968, respectively, per US$1. The com- mercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic spot and for- ward exchange market. Credit institutions in Greece may also freely con- duct forward foreign exchange transactions, includ- ing currency swaps and options. The Bank of Greece provides credit institutions forward foreign exchange transactions including currency swaps and options. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the ex- change rate mechanism of the EMS. Greece formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 22,1992. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are au- thorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. Natural and legal persons must inform the cen- tral bank for statistical purposes of transactions of sums greater than ECU 2,000 if a domestic banking institution is not involved. The commercial banks are also authorized to un- dertake transactions in foreign exchange for invisi- bles and capital transactions within the framework of existing regulations. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eu- ropean currency units (ECUs), French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonres- ident deposit accounts in drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Nonresident Accounts in Drachmas Accounts in foreign currency. These accounts may be maintained in Greece by nonresident persons and en- tities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (in- cluding seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit pri- vate legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign banknotes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Princi- pal and interest on these accounts are freely transfer- able abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened for up to 12 months. Greek residents may also open these accounts with undeclared foreign bank- notes; principal and interest on these accounts may be withdrawn in drachmas and in foreign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. The Bank of Greece sets a maximum limit on interest on these accounts, except for the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and the rate on nonresi- dents' deposits in certain currencies, which is negotia- ble. Greek residents may also maintain accounts in foreign currency with foreign financial institutions abroad, provided that their original maturity is at least one year. In August 1994 the currency market was deregulated. Foreign exchange loan facilities of credit institutions are authorized to all natural and le- gal persons residing in Greece. Deposits in foreign ex- change are now permitted for money originating from foreign exchange loan facilities. Nonresident accounts in drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. These accounts may be credited with (1) drachma proceeds from foreign exchange; (2) trans- fers of drachmas from other similar accounts of the same or other depositors, as long as the proceeds do not originate from restricted short-term transac- tions; and (3) drachmas derived from liberalized transactions. Interest rates on these deposits are freely negotiable. Credit institutions operating in Greece are allowed to invest these deposits in the drachma market. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 197 Blocked accounts. Claims of non-European Union (EU) residents denominated in drachmas and de- posited in blocked accounts can be withdrawn and transferred abroad without the approval of the Bank of Greece, with effect from July 1,1993. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the member countries of the EU are not subject to approval or clearance procedures. Approval for imports from non-EU member coun- tries is granted automatically by the commercial banks, either before or after the goods are shipped and the required amount of foreign exchange is made available. Imports of certain products from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are prohibited. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; these products are under sur- veillance according to EU quotas. Special regula- tions govern imports of certain items such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases, they are effected on the ba- sis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange for all invisible payments. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capital transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Remit- tances for family maintenance and earnings by for- eign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. Monthly foreign exchange allowance for studies and for trips abroad is ECU 2,000 a person. Foreign banks operating in Greece are permitted to repatriate their profits, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece within a year of their arrival may take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $1,000, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irrespec- tive of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek banknotes. Larger amounts in foreign bank- notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products to the former Yugo- slav Republic of Macedonia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain balances in for- eign currency accounts equivalent to 20 percent of proceeds from exports in the previous calendar year with banks operating in Greece. Exporters may use these balances to repay external obligations, in- cluding suppliers' credits, and conduct authorized capital transactions. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 90 days of the date of issue of the relevant invoice; 10 percent of these earnings of the previous calen- dar year may also be deposited in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece. Earnings from ocean-going shipping are exempt from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange but must declare it upon entry, if they wish to take it out on their next departure, not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which they entered Greece; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 40,000 in banknotes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. The amount of Greek bank- notes a nonresident may bring into Greece is lim- ited to Dr 100,000. Capital Greek natural and juridical persons are allowed to borrow foreign exchange from banks, foreign juridi- cal persons, or individuals residing abroad, without prior approval from the Bank of Greece. Authorized credit institutions operating in Greece may conduct any transaction in foreign exchange, including cur- rency and interest rate swaps and transactions in de- rivatives with resident and nonresidents, and they may extend loans in any form and currency to non- residents on freely negotiated terms. The following direct investments by residents of non-EU member countries are restricted: (1) invest- ment in border regions; (2) investment in maritime transport; (3) acquisition of mining rights; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GREECE (4) participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcast- ing or air transport. Direct investments are governed by Legislative Decree No. 2687/1953, Presidential Decrees Nos. 207/1987 and 96/1993, Acts of the Governor of the Bank of Greece Nos. 825/1986 and 2227/1993. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sover- eigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22,1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a special li- cense; licenses are normally issued to importers for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commer- cial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re-exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 16. Authorized credit institutions operating in Greece were allowed to conduct any transaction in foreign exchange, including currency and inter- est rate swaps and transactions in derivatives with residents and nonresidents. Ceilings on the foreign exchange exposure of credit institutions were re- moved, but these positions would continue to be monitored, where appropriate, in the context of prudential supervision. Administration of Control April 1. Bank of Greece announced to the press abolition of the obligation on the part of banks to check the authenticities of transactions and aboli- tion of the compulsory importation and conversion into drachmas of foreign exchange within a speci- fied period. Natural and legal persons would, how- ever, have to inform the central bank for statistical purposes of transactions of sums greater than ECU 2,000, if a domestic banking institution is not involved. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Nonresident Accounts in Drachmas November 1. Funds originating from foreign ex- change borrowing were allowed to be deposited into these accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 1. Imports of certain products from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were prohibited. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) Payments for Invisibles March 1. Monthly foreign exchange allowance for studies and for trips abroad was raised to ECU 2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds February 10. Exports of certain products to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were prohibited. Capital May 16. (1) Remaining exchange controls on short-term capital movements (mainly loans and deposits with an original maturity of less than one year) and some forward and swap contracts (for less than three months) were abolished; and (2) au- thorized credit institutions were also allowed to ex- tend loans in any form and currency for non- residents on freely negotiated terms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Grenada formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 24,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the au- thority to approve some import payments and cer- tain other outward payments. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers trade control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 may be made either through external accounts in East- ern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Set- tlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Ster- ling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Settlements with res- idents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. *The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat St. Kitts and Ne- vis/ St Lucia, and St Vincent and the Grenadines. *The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St Kitte and Nevis, St. Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents and residents without permission from the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may also maintain these accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign currency accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only with foreign ex- change earned or received from outside the Eastern Caribbean area. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely deb- ited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be freely imported, but there are certain goods whose importation is prohibited or that are subject to quantitative restrictions and re- quire a license. Prohibited goods are identified within various laws that pertain to trade, agriculture, national security, and health and include whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. Restricted items are divided between re- stricted items from non-CARicOM sources and re- stricted items from the CARICOM area. Restricted items from non-CARlCOM sources include milk, sugar, rice, a variety of tropical fruits and vegetables, carbonated beverages, arms and ammunition, indus- trial gas, paints, and miscellaneous items associated with furniture, clothing, and the construction indus- try. Items from the CARICOM area that require li- censes include curry products, beer, cigarettes, industrial gas, furniture, exotic birds, solar water heaters, and various tropical fruits and vegetables. Payments for documented imports are free of re- strictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods (and services) in excess of the limits of autho- rized dealers require permission from the Ministry of Finance. Imports of capital equipment are exempt from import duties, as are imports by domestic associa- tions involved in the production of major crops, provided that such imports are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of ba- 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 GRENADA nanas, nutmeg, and maize. Imports of fuel by the Grenada Electric Company are exempt from cus- toms duty as are the fuel imports of a substantial number of enterprises in the manufacturing and hotel industries. Imports that are not exempt from customs duties are subject to a value-added tax of either 15 percent, 20 percent, or 55 percent. All im- ports are subject to a customs service charge of 2.5 percent, and all non-CARiGOM goods are subject to the common external tariff of 35 percent. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, including up to EC$10,000 a person a year for travel abroad, up to EC$15,000 a person a year for business travel, and EC$10,000 for payment of medical expenses. Pay- ments for subscriptions to magazines and periodi- cals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975 are also effected through authorized dealers. Applications for additional amounts, or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation, are approved by the Ministry of Finance provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. There exists a short list of items that require a license prior to ex- portation from Grenada. These include exotic birds, coral, mineral products, and live sheep and goats. There are no formal regulations to ensure that ex- port proceeds are surrendered within a certain pe- riod after the date of shipment, but export proceeds must be repatriated. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. The transfer of funds by emigrants is allowed. The Ministry of Fi- nance considers transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are pro- ceeding to take up permanent residence abroad on a case-by-case basis. With exchange control approval, nonresidents may invest directly in Grenada. The remittance of earnings on, and the liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all re- lated liabilities have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Minis- try of Finance. Nonresidents may use foreign cur- rency to acquire real estate in Grenada for private purposes; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of proceeds from the re- alization of investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for residents to borrow abroad or for nonres- idents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance approved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Effective March 15, 1991, all restrictions on transfers of Eastern Caribbean dollars from Grenada to countries served by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank were eliminated. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, and industrial users are not permit- ted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Ministry of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents may not purchase for- eign currency securities or real estate abroad for private purposes. Certificates of title to foreign cur- rency securities held by residents must be lodged January 1. The 2.5 percent exchange tax was eliminated. January 24. Grenada formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Since March 14,1994, exchange rates have been determined in the interbank market according to market forces. Financial institutions authorized to operate in the exchange market are commercial banks, finance companies, and exchange houses. Foreign exchange proceeds are not required to be surrendered to the central bank, but must be sold to any authorized financial institution at market- determined rates. The Bank of Guatemala inter- venes in the exchange market only to moderate un- due fluctuations; to purchase foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector, and to service its own ex- ternal debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the Bank of Guatemala at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market during the previous day. Banks and finance companies may maintain a net foreign exchange position of up to 25 percent of the value of their capital and reserves; for the exchange houses, this limit is set at 100 percent. Foreign ex- change exceeding these limits at the end of each day must be deposited at the Bank of Guatemala. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates in the bank market were Q 5.63181 and Q 5.66524, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are freely quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The Bank of Guatemala does not issue exchange rate guarantees. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guate- mala; those of the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports of goods must be reg- istered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment, in accordance with spe- cial payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Guatemala is a member of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Import tariff rates on goods from outside the region range from 5 percent to 20 percent, in accordance with Guatemala's agreement with other Central American countries on a common external tariff, and virtually all goods traded among Central American countries are ex- empted from tariffs. The average tariff was about 8.5 percent in 1994. At present, between 2 percent and 3 percent of imported items, such as vehicles and beverages, are subject to tariffs that were estab- lished freely by each member country of the CACM. The agreement provides temporary exceptions for textiles, clothing, and footwear. By December 31, 1994, the tariffs on textiles and footwear were re- duced to 20 percent from 30 percent; the tariff on tires was reduced to 15 percent from 30 percent; and the tariff on clothing was reduced to 25 percent from 30 percent. A number of exceptions and special tariff regimes remain, for example books are subject to a tariff of 0.5 percent; some products traded within the CACM, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and al- cohol, are subject to tariffs of between 5 percent and 20 percent; some agricultural products (yellow maize, rice, and sorghum) are subject to a band of prices with variable tariffs (between 5 percent and 45 percent);1 and imports of chicken up to a monthly quota of 300 tons are subject to a tariff at the rate of 20 percent, and imports exceeding this quota are subject to a tariff of 45 percent. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and re- quire neither registration nor a license. Import li- censes issued by the Ministry of Economy are 1Changes to the maximum and minimum prices for the band and the corresponding tariff table are determined at the begin- ning of each agricultural season. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 GUATEMALA required for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, and cottonseed; these licenses are issued freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. A few other items, includ- ing gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver, may not be ex- ported in any form. Exports of wheat flour, ethyl al- cohol, roasted coffee, and tobacco and cigarettes to Central American countries are temporarily restricted. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Gua- temalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise. The granting of export permits is con- tingent upon agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 90 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 180 days). In the case of exports to Central America, there are arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national currencies or U.S. dollars or through barter. If the economic agents decide to settle their payments in U.S. dol- lars, the export revenues must be sold to the Bank of Guatemala. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, interna- tional credit card payments, and certain others are permitted without restriction. Capital All capital transactions may take place without restriction. Nonresident (and resident) investors are exempted from a 12.5 percent tax on interest paid on foreign borrowing if the funds are channeled through the domestic banking system. Foreign di- rect investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through autho- rized banks and is entitled to buy gold holdings surrendered by any resident. The banks sell gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accor- dance with the directives of the Monetary Board. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export li- cense. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 14. The system of exchange auctions ad- ministered by the central bank was abolished and replaced by an interbank market in which autho- rized financial institutions participate. March 14. Financial institutions were required to deposit net holdings of foreign exchange (defined as holdings minus obligations in foreign currency with a maturity of less than 30 days) in excess of the operational limit (25 percent of capital and reserves) with the Bank of Guatemala. Imports and Import Payments December 31. The tariff rate on textiles and foot- wear was reduced to 20 percent from 30 percent; the tariff rate on tires was reduced to 15 percent from 30 percent; and the tariff rate on clothing was reduced to 25 percent from 30 percent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Its external value is determined by the supply and de- mand for foreign exchange between the authorized foreign exchange dealers and their clients or among the dealers themselves. The Central Bank of Guinea, a net recipient of nonproject aid funds and mining com- pany receipts, also participates in the interbank mar- ket, as it remains a net supplier of foreign exchange. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc against the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. The exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the rate of these currencies against the French franc in the international market. On December 31,1994, the offi- cial exchange rate for the Guinean franc vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar was GF 981.02 per US$1. Foreign exchange bureaus are in operation, and exchange rates in the market are determined by supply and demand condi- tions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank of Guinea, which has delegated to the commercial banks authority to (1) approve import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import applica- tion forms (demandes descriptives d'importation) for amounts of up to $200,000; (2) allocate foreign ex- change to travelers holding foreign airline tickets (travelers holding tickets issued by Compagnie Na- tionale Air Guin£e must apply to the Central Bank for their travel allowances); and (3) manage foreign currency accounts opened in the name of nonresi- dents. All settlements with foreign countries, in- cluding payments for imports, require approval from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in cur- rencies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 1Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maurita- nia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts Guinean residents may maintain and operate de- posit accounts in foreign currency at the domestic commercial banks. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their revenue in foreign currency in local bank accounts. For gold exporters, this proportion can be as high as 50 percent. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: nonresident transferable accounts in foreign curren- cies, which may be opened freely, subject to notifi- cation of the Central Bank by commercial banks; and nonresident accounts in Guinean francs, which may also be opened freely. Accounts in Convertible Guinean Francs Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. They are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irre- spective of its origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks into for- eign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Interest rates on these are negoti- ated between the account holder and the bank. Imports and Import Payments All products except armaments, ammunition, and narcotics may be freely imported into Guinea. All imports of less than $200,000 require authori- zation, which is granted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank. Authorization is given for two types of imports: (1) imports for which import- ers have access to foreign exchange provided at rates determined during weekly fixing sessions; and (2) imports financed with importers' own foreign ex- change resources (autorisation sans achat de devises). 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 GUINEA To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (for imports valued at $5,000 or less f.o.b.) or an import application re- quest form (for imports valued at more than $5,000 f.o.b.), on which they must provide information on products to be imported, including price, quantity, quality, and financing terms. For imports with access to the auction market, au- thorization is given only after price, quality, and terms of financing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through com- mercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by three "mixed-econ- omy" companies (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; and AREDOR, the diamond company) and foreign embassies. All products are subject to a 12 percent turnover tax, customs duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and customs charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following ex- ceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is im- posed on all luxury goods, and a surtax of 30- 60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages, cer- tain wines, and spirits. Imports of the three mixed enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6 percent levy. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved for- eign investments may be transferred abroad and that certified dividends and royalties may be transferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incentives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earn- ings and only for those contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. The exportation of Guinean cur- rency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an ex- port description to help prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption and to identify capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempt from this requirement. The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds requires special authorization from des- ignated agencies. Planters may be granted special authorization to export a specific quantity of pine- apples, bananas, or citrus fruits. Private traders may be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds to finance authorized im- ports. Gold exporters and vendors are required to surrender their export proceeds but may retain 25 percent to 50 percent of proceeds in foreign ex- change deposits with commercial banks. This amount may be increased depending on the vol- ume and type of products, especially with respect to gold and diamonds. The mixed-economy compa- nies are allowed to retain all of their export pro- ceeds abroad and may use the balances to pay for their imports and operating requirements and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, residents must surrender exchange proceeds accruing from invisibles if they do not hold foreign currency accounts. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permit- ted freely, subject to declaration on entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of their return. Certain residents, by virtue of their occupation, are authorized to deposit their foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency or convertible Guinean franc accounts. The Central Bank of Guinea levies a fee of 0.25 percent of pro- ceeds in foreign banknotes transferred through commercial banks. The importation of Guinean cur- rency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also pro- vides for preferential tax and customs treatment ap- plicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Small and medium- size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is in- vested over a 3-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 205 period of 8-10 years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of partic- ular importance to the economy The minimum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have con- trolling interests in enterprises requiring foreign in- vestment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold The Central Bank purchases gold in Guinean francs at international prices; at the seller's request, the Central Bank may purchase 50 percent of out- put in foreign currency. Since the monetary reform of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver commemora- tive coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restriction. Only the exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1994 Payments for Invisibles July 1. All restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. The Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau sets official buying and selling exchange rates for its transactions and for those of government agencies. The official buying rate against the U.S. dollar, which serves as the intervention currency, is ad- justed, as necessary, and maintained within a 2 per- cent average of the freely determined rates quoted by the two commercial banks and an exchange bu- reau and the parallel market rate. The spread be- tween the buying and selling rates of the official and commercial rates is subject to a maximum of 2 percent. The Central Bank occasionally intervenes in the market through sales of foreign currencies to the commercial banks. On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were PG 15,369 and PG 15,677, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign currency in Guinea-Bissau. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk in the banking or commercial sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank exercises control over foreign exchange transactions involving the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. For- eign exchange transactions effected by commercial banks with resources derived from sources other than those of the Central Bank are, in general, not controlled by the Central Bank. Residents are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange in their possession without revealing its sources. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in foreign currency, although certain external obligations have been settled with goods on a few occasions in the past. Guinea-Bissau participates in the West African Clearing House, which includes member countries of the Central Bank of West Afri- can States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents may open demand and time ac- counts in foreign currency with commercial banks and may use balances on these accounts without re- striction, except that they must give prior notice for withdrawals above certain pre-established limits. Residents may also maintain these accounts (1) if they are authorized to engage in foreign currency transactions; or (2) if they receive income in foreign currency under contracts with nonresidents. Banks may pay interest up to 4 percent a year on demand accounts in foreign currency, whereas interest rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports, regardless of whether they involve use of official or free market foreign exchange, re- quire a prior import license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Importaqao) issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Since official availability of foreign ex- change in the country is not considered when li- censes are issued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their posses- sion does not guarantee the importers access to the official exchange market. Except for a short nega- tive list, licenses are issued automatically after veri- fication of invoice prices for goods to be imported. Importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system with their own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the parallel market. However, payments for imports with foreign exchange purchased from, or adminis- tered by, the Central Bank require authorization from the Central Bank, which is granted on the ba- sis of the priority of the products involved and the availability of foreign exchange. On December 31,1991, the state monopoly on im- ports of petroleum and petroleum products was abolished. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles by the public sector at the official exchange rate are effected through the Cen- tral Bank. Payments for invisibles by the private sector take place at the freely determined exchange rate and may be made without restriction. These payments 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 207 may take place through commercial banks and the foreign exchange house. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange that they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a prior export license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Exportayio). Only exporters reg- istered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted auto- matically in most cases. As in the case of imports, prior licenses are intended primarily for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products whose ex- portation is reserved solely for the public sector. In general, all exports are subject to a customs services tax of 6 percent (5 percent for cashew nuts). In addition, exports of cashew nuts are subject to a special tax, whose rate has been reduced over the years and is currently 13 percent. Agricultural ex- ports are also subject to a rural property tax (Contri- bui$ao Predial Riistica), at the rate of 2 percent on processed products and 1 percent on unprocessed products. Special arrangements apply to exports to mem- ber countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), to which Guinea-Bissau belongs; for example, exports to these countries are exempt from the 6 percent customs services tax. Exporters are required to surrender 40 percent of proceeds to the Central Bank and the remainder to the commercial banks. they are free to sell foreign exchange in their pos- session on the free exchange market. Capital Foreign direct investments are governed by the In- vestment Code of 1985, which was amended most recently by Decree-Law No. 4/91, promulgated on September 30, 1991. Under the Investment Code, a number of incentives to foreign direct investment have been established, and foreign and domestic in- vestments have been subject to the same terms with respect to access to domestic credit. The Investment Code provides protection against nationalization of investment and expropriation of assets, and recog- nizes the right of foreign investors to transfer foreign currency abroad in respect of profits (net of taxes), to sell or liquidate investments, to service loans ob- tained for project financing, and to make payments for imported supplies and technical assistance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited un- less expressly authorized by the appropriate gov- ernment authorities. The Central Bank may engage in gold purchases and sale transactions with the public. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments June 30. The port service charge on imports was raised to 15 percent; it was raised again to 20 per- cent on December 15. Proceeds from Invisibles Under the foreign exchange regulations that came into effect in 1991, neither residents nor non- residents are required to sell to the Central Bank foreign exchange they receive from abroad, and Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. The special tax on exports of cashew nuts was reduced to 13 percent from 18 percent. June 1. Minimum quantity shipping requirements for agricultural exports were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, the external value of which is determined freely by market forces in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers in the cambio market on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), the Bank of Guyana quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies.1 On Decem- ber 31,1994, the average buying and selling rates in the cambio market were C$141.31 and G$143.9, re- spectively, per US$1. The Bank of Guyana quotes rates for pounds sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the U.S. dollar-pound sterling and the U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar cross rates quoted by the Bank of England. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at different rates on purchases and sales of officially quoted currencies. Transactions effected through the Bank of Guy- ana are limited, on the receipts side, to exports of sugar, bauxite, and gold and, on the payments side, mainly to imports of fuel and to official debt-service payments. All other transactions are effected in the cambio market. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates^ in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vided to certain deposits in blocked accounts. (See section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 27,1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted this authority to the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade, Tour- *For the operations of the CARICOM Bilateral Settlement Ar- rangements, the Bank of Guyana sets rates for the CARICOM cur- rencies every Friday on the basis of the average rates of the commercial banks and the five largest nonbank cambio dealers in the week ending the preceding Wednesday. The currencies to which this rate applies are the Barbados dollar, the Eastern Car- ibbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. ism, and Industry is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market un- der the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act of March 13, 1990, the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control notices that related to (1) basic travel allowances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) subscriptions to clubs and societies, including entrance fees; (4) payments for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until further notice, dealers are no longer authorized to accept deposits into the ex- ternal payments deposit scheme for payment of im- ports from countries outside CARICOM. Under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licens- ing) Act, with the payment of a fee of G$250,000, in- dividuals, partnerships, and companies may be licensed for a period of one year (renewable) to en- gage in foreign currency dealings; these dealers are required to submit weekly returns of the transac- tions they conduct to the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Guyana dollars. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: external accounts, blocked accounts, and nonresident foreign exchange accounts. External accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons who reside outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all au- thorized payments by residents of Guyana to non- residents and with transfers from other external accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he or she is in Guyana; other debits re- quire approval. Blocked accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain capital pro- 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Guyana dollar. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 209 ceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including purchases of ap- proved securities. Since mid-1978, blocked accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market- related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides a partial exchange rate guarantee at the rates of G$3.25-G$3.75 per US$1 for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984; at G$5.0 per US$1 for deposits made between January 1984 (after de- valuation) and the end of January 1987; at G$10 per US$1 for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made after March 1989. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by commercial banks without the prior approval of the central bank for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other countries temporarily residing in Guyana; nonresi- dents attached to diplomatic missions or interna- tional organizations; branches of companies incorporated outside of Guyana; and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresi- dents abroad. These accounts may be credited with noncash instruments of convertible foreign curren- cies transferred through the banking system and transfers from external accounts. They may be deb- ited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are ap- proved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require imported inputs for pro- duction and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a por- tion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are also restricted, subject to import-licensing controls, from all non- CARICOM sources. These restrictions are currently applicable to four categories of food, that is, un- processed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items. There are no licensing requirements for per- missible imports, except for petroleum products and some twenty items affecting national security, health, public safety, and the environment. Intra-CARicOM trade is free of import duties, quo- tas, and import-licensing arrangements. The Com- mon External Tariff (GET) of CARICOM is applied to imports from outside CARICOM. Guyana is a party to an agreement among CARICOM member states to implement a phased reduction in the CET rate structure from a band of 30 percent to 5-20 percent by January 1,1998.3 There are no import quotas. Import payments ef- fected by commercial banks on behalf of the Bank of Guyana require the Bank's prior approval. Before the introduction of the cambio market, all applica- tions for official foreign exchange were required to be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are re- quired to maintain a 100 percent reserve require- ment against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio market without restric- tion. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$l,500 on departure. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign or local currency that may be taken out for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO), and bauxite and alumina only by Linmine, Bermine, and Aroaima Bauxite Company. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export li- censes, but transactions are monitored by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that all proceeds of exports are repatriated and offered for sale to a licensed dealer. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports whose value exceeds G$20,000. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits some exporters to retain a certain percentage of ex- port proceeds. The retention ratio is 40 percent for sugar, and gold and 100 percent for all other exports. Retained foreign exchange may be used freely in the cambio market. 3As a first step, the maximum tariff rate was lowered to 30 per- cent on January 14,1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 GUYANA Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements and may be retained or sold in the cambio market without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency notes; travelers entering the country with foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 must declare the amount. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Guyana Investment Policy of 1988. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries may borrow in Guyana only with the express ap- proval of the Bank of Guyana. There are no restric- tions on repatriation of capital. Residents and nonresidents have unlimited access to the cambio market for repatriation of funds. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. Residents other than the monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without spe- cial permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and indus- trial users require permits issued by the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission. Changes During 1994 Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 6. Exporters were permitted to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. June 30. Nonresidents were permitted to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. Imports and Import Payments January 13. Customs Amendment Act No. 2 of 1994 was passed in the National Assembly and ap- proved by the President on January 28. February 1. The first-stage reduction in the new CARICOM Common External Tariff (CET) to a maxi- mum of 30 percent became effective. Exports and Export Proceeds May 31. The foreign exchange retention ratio for sugar exports was raised to 30 percent from 20 percent. June 10. The foreign exchange retention ratio for gold exports through the Gold Board was raised to 30 percent from 20 percent. November 14. The foreign exchange retention ratio for sugar exports and for gold exports through the Gold Board was raised to 40 percent from 30 per- cent, and bauxite producers were authorized to transact freely in the cambio market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, and its external value is determined on the basis of de- mand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- ket. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange markets abroad. Commercial banks are required to limit the spread between their buying and selling rates to no more than 3 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange tate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 22,1953. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) administers the foreign exchange system. Article 52 of the decree-law of September 28, 1991 provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authori- ties, equal to 20 percent on any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank established in Haiti. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Resident Accounts Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; in accordance with Article 2 of the decree of January 18,1990, these ac- counts may be credited with export proceeds,with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and non- governmental organizations. Imports and Import Payments 25 percent; maize, rice, and flour, 50 percent; sugar, 15 percent; and rice and cement, 3 percent. Equip- ment, raw materials, most inputs, and pharmaceu- tical products are exempt from tariffe. Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are calculated on the basis of the gourde equivalent of the c.i.f. value of the imported good, calculated at the market exchange rate. For tax and tariff purposes, equipment and inputs for the agri- cultural and industrial sectors are valued at a more favorable exchange rate. All imports, except for in- puts used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent, which is payable in Haiti. N Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. In accordance with the decree of July 7,1989, a per- centage (currently 40 percent) of all export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank through the commercial banks at the reference rate.1 Export- ers are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatria- tion of their export proceeds. The customs adminis- tration does not grant export approval unless those drafts are cleared by the central bank. Exchange houses are required to surrender all foreign ex- change transfers to the authorized foreign exchange dealers.2 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 275 on tickets. All travelers must pay an airport tax. The tax for Haitian residents is G 125 and for nonresi- dents, $25. Diplomats and staff members of interna- tional organizations accredited in Haiti are exempt from both taxes. Proceeds from invisibles are not re- quired to be surrendered. There are no limits on the Seven products (rice, millet, chicken, beans, maize, sugar, and pork) are subject to licensing re- quirements with quantitative restrictions. Customs tariffs are levied at the following rates: gasoline, lrThe reference rate is the weighted average of the exchange rates quoted by all commercial banks, money brokers, and cam- bios during the preceding day. 2As of December 31,1991, only the surrender requirement ap- plicable to export proceeds was being enforced. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 HAITI importation or exportation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital transactions in gourdes are restricted; in practice, however, these restrictions are not imple- mented. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a decree of October 30,1982 and requires prior gov- ernment approval. Permission is normally not granted to nonresidents to invest in handicraft in- dustries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep a min- imum of 85 percent of their liabilities in the form of domestic assets for local customers. Gold Gold in any form, other than jewelry carried as per- sonal effects by travelers, may be imported and ex- ported only by the central bank; exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Minis- try of Finance and Economic Affairs, as well as an endorsement from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, com- mercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The central bank has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. April 10. The customs tariffs on the following products were changed from the range of zero to 57.8 percent to the range of zero to 25.0 percent with the following rates: gasoline, 25 percent; sugar, 15 percent; and rice and cement, 3 percent. Equip- ment, raw materials, and most inputs are exempt. The value of imported goods would be valued at the market exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira. The interbank foreign exchange system was suspended temporarily, and a foreign exchange auc- tion system was introduced on July 17,1994. Under this system, banks and exchange houses are re- quired to sell all their daily foreign exchange pur- chases to the Central Bank of Honduras, which auctions at least 60 percent of its purchases. Buyers (banks, exchange houses, or private individuals) bid a price that cannot differ from a base price set by the authorities by more than 1 percent in either direc- tion. The maximum bid in an auction is US$200,000. The base price is modified each time the reference exchange rate (the weighted average of successful bids) differs in the same direction from the base prices for 15 consecutive auctions. Auctions are held once each working day. At the end of 1994, the base price was L 9.29 per US$1 and the reference rate was L 9.40 per US$1. Banks and exchange houses sell foreign exchange to the public at the auction price plus a commission of less than 1.5 percent. Debt conversions are conducted at the rate of L 2 p er US$1. Purchases and sales of the currencies of other Central American countries are effected on the basis of quotations in lempiras, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the interbank markets of the countries concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Honduras formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1950. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Honduras administers ex- change control regulations. Exporters are required to present a declaration to the External Financing De- partment of the Central Bank (DERFE), which main- tains an import registry for statistical purposes only. Foreign investment regulations are administered by the Secretary of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. tions with the rest of Central America may be car- ried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. Foreign currency accounts may be maintained with domestic banks without restriction. Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign cur- rency notes in their vaults, (2) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (3) investments in high-liquidity foreign instruments, or (4) advance export- or import-financing instruments. Imports and Import Payments Registration is required for all imports valued at more than $5,000. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. Imports are financed either through the banking system or through exchange houses, with foreign exchange purchased in the free market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing ob- tained through export advances or government credit agreements with external institutions). Imports are subject to customs duties, ranging from zero to 20 percent.1 In addition, certain con- sumer goods are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 percent of the c.i.f. import value.2 The duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms registered under the regime of tempo- rary imports (a drawback regime) are exempt from customs duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are required to be registered only for sta- tistical purposes. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or ex- change houses. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized foreign exchange obligations. Pro- ceeds from exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 25 days; the surrender period for other exports ranges from 30 days to 120 days. The commercial banks and exchange houses are re- Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transac- 1Over 1,600 products from other Central American countries are exempt from customs duties, except for an import surcharge of 5 percent. 2The surcharge was eliminated on January 1,1995. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 HONDURAS quired to sell to the Central Bank all their foreign exchange purchases. Exports of coffee are super- vised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Bananas are subject to an export tax at the rate of $0.50 for each 40-pound box, but production from newly planted areas is exempt from the tax, and production from rehabilitated areas is subject to a tax at the rate of $0.25 a box. Sugar is subject to an export tax if its export price exceeds a specified level. Coffee exports whose f.o.b. value is more than $80 a quintal (100 kilograms) are subject to a 5 per- cent export tax (and a 10 percent income tax) on the difference between the export price and price of $80 a quintal. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All buyers of foreign exchange are required to fill out a form stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. There are no limits on the amount purchased. There are no restrictions on the impor- tation of foreign banknotes by travelers. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be repatriated. Capital There are no restrictions on activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing de- velopments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of Congress is required for all public sector foreign borrowing. Private sector external debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank for statis- tical purposes only. Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms and foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors without restriction, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior ap- proval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secretary of Economy and Trade, and repa- triation of registered capital and transfers of divi- dends and profits earned on such capital are not restricted. Investment insurance may be arranged in Honduras or abroad without restriction. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses is- sued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are sub- ject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement July 17. The interbank foreign exchange system was suspended temporarily, and a foreign exchange auction system was introduced. Under the auction system, banks and exchange houses are required to sell all their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank, which auctions at least 60 percent of the foreign exchange it has purchased at a "base price" that it has set. The base price is changed each time the reference exchange rate (the weighted av- erage of successful bids) differs in the same direc- tion from the base prices for 15 consecutive auctions. The bid (buying) price in the auctions can- not be different from the base price by more than 1 percent, and the maximum bid in an auction can- not exceed $200,000. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The 10 percent customs surcharge was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the three note-issuing banks must de- liver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dol- lars that is equivalent to the local currency issued at the linked exchange rate as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues to each rate-issuing bank non-interest- bearing certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Conversely, the note-issuing banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering certificates of indebtedness and withdrawing local banknotes from circulation at the same linked exchange rate. The amount of indebt- edness of the Government represented by the certif- icates of indebtedness will be reduced accordingly. Other banks may acquire local currency notes from the note-issuing banks against Hong Kong dollar deposits at parity. For other transactions, the ex- change rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the ex- change market at freely negotiated rates. However, the possibility of interest rate arbitrage and cur- rency arbitrage, together with the capability of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to intervene in the market, tends to keep the market rate in line with the linked rate. On December 31, 1994, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar was HK$7.738 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives, and the Gov- ernment has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and ex- port licensing is carried out mainly by the Director- General of Trade. 1Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 215 Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of restrictions, except for those restrictions maintained for reasons of health, safety, environmental protection, or security. All imports are free of duties, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is levied on imported and do- mestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, alcoholic liquors, methyl alcohol, and some hydrocarbon oils. With a few exceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importa- tion or exportation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are re- quired for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the Multifiber Arrangement and under a number of bilateral textile agreements. Other restrictions are maintained for reasons of health, environmental protection, safety, or security. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency and need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distribution from trusts, and divi- dends are not taxed in Hong Kong; interest income from domestic sources received by licensed banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong is subject to a profit tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is exempt from the profit tax. Resident and nonresident travelers may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 HONG KONG freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking or insur- ance and securities dealings. Otherwise, all over- seas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry within one month of estab- lishing a place of business in Hong Kong. Gold There are free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures that are open to residents and non- residents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Commemorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the forint is deter- mined on the basis of a currency basket comprising the European currency unit (ECU)1 (70 percent) and the U.S. dollar (30 percent). The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular inter- vals, principally in light of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. The official exchange rate is fixed at about noon every day against the basket and is calculated for 20 convertible currencies and the ECU within mar- gins of ±2.5 percent, but licensed banks are free to determine their own margins within this band. The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) intervenes at the market rate to keep it within the margin of the peg. The official spot buying and selling rates in U.S. dollars on December 31, 1994 were Ft 107.223 and Ft 107.757, respectively, per US$1. Banks are free to set the exchange rates for currency notes and trav- eler's checks. As a transitional measure, transferable and clear- ing rubles continue to be used (1) for the settlement of certain outstanding financial claims related to contracts concluded before the end of 1990, and (2) for other settlements that are to be phased out. For outstanding claims, official exchange rates are quoted for the transferable and clearing ruble. At the end of December 1994, the middle rate for the forint against 1 transferable or clearing ruble was Ft 27.5. The NBH does not quote the exchange rate of the forint for currencies of countries belonging to the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) and many other countries; for cash trans- actions in those currencies the exchange rates are freely determined by the commercial banks and ex- change offices. Agreements between Hungary and the Slovak Re- public permit their national currencies to be con- verted into each other's currency through their respective banking systems for the purpose of tourist travel between the two countries at exchange rates Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Exchange rates are also quoted for bank- notes and traveler's checks in Greek drachmas. freely determined by the commercial banks and ex- change offices; they also stipulate limits on the im- portation of banknotes by travelers. Another agreement, concluded at the end of September 1991, extends the arrangement to payments through inter- bank settlements for a list of noncommercial transac- tions. Interbank settlements between the two countries in Hungarian forint and Slovak crowns have been actually made in low volume, through only one Hungarian and one Slovak commercial bank. The Czech Republic abandoned the same agreements with Hungary in the first half of 1993. As far as cash transactions are concerned, a free ex- change market exists for the Slovak crown, with trading handled by about thirty organizations; for the Czech koruna, trading is handled by four or five organizations; and for the currencies of Bulgaria, Po- land, Romania, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, most trading is handled by one organization. The commercial banks may engage in forward transactions with terms ranging from seven days to one year, and forward exchange rates may be nego- tiated freely between the banks and their custom- ers. The commercial banks may also enter into foreign currency swaps with the NBH. Administration of Control Authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions through the NBH, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions. The NBH may entrust other agencies, such as banking institu- tions and travel agencies, with the performance of specified tasks. All economic organizations and private persons in Hungary are entitled to carry out foreign trade activity, provided that foreign trade was part of their business activities when incorporated, in con- vertible currencies and Hungarian forint after regis- tering with the NBH (the Ministry of International Economic Relations before January 1,1992). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Hungary notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), it had imposed certain restric- tions on the making of payments and transfers for 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 218 HUNGARY current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro). Restrictions on the provision of financial ser- vices to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro) were also imposed on May 6,1993, in accordance with UN Resolution No. 820. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hungary has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is normally made in a convertible currency officially quoted in Hungary or in Hungarian forint. At the end of 1994, bilateral agreements were maintained with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, the Rus- sian Federation, and Viet Nam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods; at the end of 1994, agree- ments were concluded with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia. Hungary's only remaining operative bilateral payments agreements are with Brazil and Ecuador. Under these agreements, outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. With respect to outstanding balances under inop- erative bilateral payments agreements, most of which are with former CMEA members and other socialist countries, agreements for settlement have been reached in most cases. Hungary was a net debtor only to the former German Democratic Re- public and has agreed on a schedule of payments to settle the outstanding balance in convertible cur- rency by the end of 1995. The Russian Federation, the largest net debtor to Hungary, has agreed to set- tle the amount owed by the end of 1997 through the delivery of goods and services or debt-equity swaps. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons as well as resident natural persons may freely maintain convertible currency accounts at authorized com- mercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts only with funds orig- inating from specific sources, such as capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint- venture companies or donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches and social orga- nizations, and budgetary institutions. The accounts carry interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment up to a maxi- mum of the equivalent of Ft 1 million but no ex- change rate guarantee in case of conversion. The interest rates on deposits are determined by the commercial banks. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Imports and Exports Beginning in December 1990, a general authoriza- tion was granted to all entities to import and export items without specific license except for those on a negative list. A global quota is reported to the World Trade Organization (WTO) on imports of consumer goods that are subject to license by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and settled in convertible currencies. A license is required for imports that are for the account of the settlement of the outstanding balances in transferable or clearing rubles. Importers have an automatic right to purchase foreign exchange through the banking system for all bona fide imports. When applying for foreign exchange, importers have to complete a declara- tion, stating the use of foreign exchange. The NBH conducts a random check of banks and enterprises for compliance with the regulations. Commercial banks may enter into deferred pay- ment arrangements on behalf of their clients with- out restriction for a period of up to one year; arrangements exceeding three months must be re- ported to the NBH by the client. These arrange- ments need not be secured by bank obligations. For deferred payments of over one year, permission from the NBH is required. Export proceeds must be received in officially quoted convertible currencies or in Hungarian forint. In the former case, such proceeds must be surrendered against Hungarian forint to a licensed bank within eight days of receipt of the foreign ex- change. Certain exemptions are granted, subject to specific approval by the NBH. Export earnings must be repatriated immediately following the shipment of goods. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to provide the NBH with semian- nual reports showing claims outstanding in connec- tion with their export activities. The collection of export contracts exceeding Ft 4 million must be guaranteed by either letter of credit, bank guaran- tee, or bank collection. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresidents may be deposited in foreign trade accounts with licensed banks, and nonresi- dents are allowed to convert balances in such ac- counts into foreign exchange for transfer abroad. Noncommercial goods imported by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15 percent based on the actual invoice price ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 219 with a duty-free allowance of Ft 8,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, secu- rity, and other noneconomic reasons. An export subsidy may be provided for exports of agricultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies or Hungarian forint. The value-added tax paid on goods that are exported is refunded. The refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Hungary has negotiated new trade agreements with former CMEA countries based on free market principles and providing for settlements in convert- ible currencies at world market prices, with no offi- cial overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities. As of December 1992, new trade agreements were in effect with Albania, Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam. At the end of 1993, new trade agreements were in effect with the People's Republic of China, Croatia, Kazakhstan, and Latvia. The Trade Protocol of the Association Agreement between Hungary and the European Union entered into force on March 1, 1992 with the help of the Interim Agree- ment. The Visegrad agreements of the Central Euro- pean Free Trade Area (CEFTA) with Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Republic entered into effect in March 1993, and the trade agreement with five European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries (Austria, Liechtenstein, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland) entered into effect in October 1993. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Other transactions require general or individual authorization, irrespective of their amount, mostly from the NBH and, in some special cases, from the Ministry of Finance or an- other responsible authority. Foreign exchange for re- lated payments is made available automatically once the underlying transactions have been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or a certain proportion of turnover is given to enter- prises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and re- lated personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the NBH or the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. There are no restrictions on purchase of foreign exchange for business travel purposes. Until June 1992, foreign exchange allowances for travel were granted to passport holders in convert- ible currencies, subject to an annual limit of $50 a year. For passport holders over 14 years of age, the allowance was available annually or up to the total amount of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of $50 or $100 would have been available in 1992 and 1993 if the allowances had not been used in 1990 or 1991, respectively. Those travel- ers who used more than one-half of the total allow- ance available for the three-year period 1988 to 1990 could not receive further allowances in 1991 to 1992. Since April 1, 1994, exchange allowances for tourist travel have been increased by the equivalent of $800 a passport holder over 14 years of age and to $300 for those under 14. Unused amounts of the annual $800 and $300 cannot be carried over to subsequent years. Package tours may be freely purchased in forint. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, but to cover their anticipated expenditures while in Hungary, they must have a certain amount of money at their disposal, which is checked at the borders. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in ad- dition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. Foreign travelers may take out of the country without restriction all of the articles purchased in Hungary with forint converted from convertible currency; conversion into forint must, however, be verified with presen- tation of records. Since August 1,1992, residents may, without a li- cense from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 10,000 a person (in denom- inations not exceeding Ft 1,000); the corresponding limit for nonresidents was also set at Ft 10,000 effec- tive May 1,1994. Coins made of precious metal may not be taken out of the country at all. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HUNGARY convertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ventures, are allowed on a case-by-case basis. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may trans- fer abroad up to 50 percent of their taxed income. Capital Under the new Central Banking Law approved by the Parliament on December 1,1991, financial in- stitutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Foreign borrowing of other legal entities is subject to the approval of the NBH. Granting cred- its to foreigners by the Hungarian financial institu- tions is in most cases limited to credits with maturities of up to six months. Commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities between nonfinancial legal entities with maturities of over one year need authorization. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established without approval, but in the case of banks and in- surance companies, foreign participation exceeding 10 percent of equity requires government approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are exempted from several regulations. Ma- chines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign investment. Joint ventures are granted a 60 percent allowance on the profit tax in the first five years of operation and 40 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year, provided the equity capital exceeds Ft 50 million, the foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent, and more than one-half of proceeds come from pro- duction of goods; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvest- ment of profits is encouraged by a reduction in the profit tax. Joint ventures in preferred fields of activ- ities are granted 100 percent of profit tax allowance for five years and pay 60 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year. The right to these incentives could be obtained until December 31,1993. The in- puts imported by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the NBH to cover losses on invested assets as a result of state measures or from Hungar- ian banking institutions to cover the fulfillment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capac- ity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Gifts (movable property that is in Hungary) from nonresidents to residents in excess of Ft 100,000 a person and from Hungarian residents to nonresidents in excess of Ft 20,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are generally not allowed to acquire real estate, or other immov- able property in Hungary, except through inherit- ance. Joint ventures can own real estate necessary for their activities without authorization. Outward capital transfers by resident natural persons are not generally approved. For certain es- tablished categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the ap- proval of the NBH. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country assets valued up to Ft 500,000, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident forint account or deposit. In the case of emigrants, the licenses for transfers of assets are granted by the NBH. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the NBH, in concurrence with the re- sponsible authority if for industrial or artistic use. All ingots and gold coins must be offered to the NBH for sale. Except for transactions with enter- prises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing admin- istered by the NBH. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The margins for official spot buying and selling rates were widened from ±0.3 percent to ±0.5 percent. A minimum amount for transactions with the NBH was raised from the equivalent of $1 million to $2 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 221 January 3. The exchange rate was depreciated by 1.0 percent. February 16. The exchange rate was depreciated by 2.6 percent. May 13. The exchange rate was depreciated by 1.0 percent. May 16. The currency composition of the basket to which the forint is pegged was changed from the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar (with equal weights) to the ECU (70 percent) and the U.S. dollar (30 percent). June 10. The exchange rate was depreciated by 1.2 percent. August 5. The margins for official spot buying and selling rates were widened from ±0.5 percent to ±1.25 percent. August 5. The exchange rate was depreciated by 8.0 percent. October 11. The exchange rate was depreciated by 1.1 percent. November 29. The exchange rate was depreciated by 1.0 percent. December 23. The margin for official spot inter- vention rates was widened from ±1.25 percent to ±2.25 percent. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 1. Nonresidents were allowed to convert bal- ances in foreign trade forint accounts into foreign exchange for transfer abroad. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 1. The annual allowance for tourists who travel abroad was increased from $300 to $800 a person for adults (from $150 to $300 for children under 14 years of age). The limit on the number of trips that may be taken abroad was eliminated. The availability of foreign exchange to travel agents would not be limited. May 1. (1) The restriction on purchases of foreign exchange for business travel purposes was elimi- nated; (2) the limit on the amount of package tours that may be purchased in forint was abolished; (3) the limit on the amount of domestic currency rates a nonresident may take out of Hungary was in- creased to Ft 10,000; and (4) the limits on the value of gifts a nonresident may give to a Hungarian resi- dent and that a Hungarian resident may give to a nonresident without a license were increased to Ft 10,000 and Ft 20,000, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Kr6na. The external value of the kr6na is pegged to a bas- ket of currencies consisting of European currency unit (ECU), Japanese yen, and U.S. dollar. The offi- cial exchange rate is determined in the interbank market in a daily fixing meeting. The participants in the market are the Central Bank of Iceland and four commercial banks. The Central Bank intervenes in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate within a margin of ±2.25 percent around the central rate. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates were ISK 68.21 and ISK 68.39, respectively, per US$1, the principal trading currency in Iceland. Banks and other foreign exchange dealers are free to set their own commercial exchange rates and to decide the spread between buying and selling rates. A special tax of 15 percent is levied on any fees the exchange dealers charge for selling or transferring foreign exchange abroad.1 Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 19,1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has ulti- mate responsibility for matters concerning imports and, in consultation with the Central Bank, on for- eign exchange regulations. Export controls are ad- ministered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade. All foreign exchange transactions, including capital transactions, are free of restric- tions unless explicitly prohibited by provisions of the Exchange Act No. 87/1992 or the Foreign Ex- change Regulation that came into effect on January 1,1995. Currently, the exchange control functions of the Central Bank include authorizing foreign exchange dealers to operate on a commercial basis, carrying out reporting requirements for statistical purposes, and regulating foreign direct investments. The ad- ministrative control of foreign trade in goods, such as tax duties and documentation, is carried out by the customs authorities. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, ^his tax is expected to be abolished on January 1,1996. 1952, Iceland notified the Fund on July 31,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on nonresident accounts with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instru- ments involved. All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification num- ber, and the banks must report to the Central Bank the monthly position of nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without a li- cense. The main exemptions are live animals and certain agricultural products. Certain imports, in- cluding fertilizers, tobacco, and alcoholic bever- ages, can only be imported under state trading arrangements. Some fresh vegetables, including po- tatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports that require a license, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the kr6na value of the im- port license when it is issued. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and its engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public ser- vice vehicles are exempt. Certain goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent ad valorem. A spe- cific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax depending on the alcohol content and volume. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products re- quire licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Af- fairs and Foreign Trade. No exchange controls are imposed on receipts from exports. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 223 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange controls are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital The general rules are that both inward and out- ward capital transfers are free of restrictions if not prohibited by provisions of exchange regulations or other special legislation. Foreign governments, local authorities, and other public authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Ice- land unless permitted to do so by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regu- lated, in accordance with special legislation No. 34/ 1991, as follows: (1) nonresidents are free to make investments in Iceland, subject to the conditions laid down in general legislation governing foreign investment or sector-specific legislation; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically regis- tered companies wholly owned by resident Icelan- dic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelan- dic citizens, and domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citi- zens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermal energy. The restrictions apply to power production and distribution companies; (4) investment by nonresidents in domestic airlines is restricted to 49 percent; (5) investment by nonres- idents in domestic incorporated commercial banks is restricted to 25 percent, but foreign commercial banks are allowed to open branches in Iceland; and (6) total investment by single nonresidents, or by fi- nancially linked nonresidents, in excess of ISK 300 million a year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. This financial limit is subject to change in the price index. Total invest- ment by nonresidents in any sector must not exceed 25 percent, but the Minister of Commerce may grant an exemption to that limit. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legislation stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be residents. The legislation on joint-stock companies stipulates that the majority of founders must be residents be- fore the company is established. The managing di- rector and a majority of the members of the board of directors of a company must be residents. Citizens of the European Economic Area are exempted from this restriction, and the Minister of Commerce may grant exceptions to this requirement. The ownership and uses of real estate in Iceland are governed by the provision of Act No. 19/1966 with amendments in 1991 and 1993. The conditions to own real estate in Iceland are (1) individuals must be Icelandic citizens; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citizens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, at least 80 percent must be owned by Ice- landic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors must be Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citi- zens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a com- pany that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit nat- ural resources. Citizens of the European Union and other foreign citizens that have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Short-term foreign borrowing and lending by res- idents to nonresidents, other than trade credits, are permitted up to a limit of ISK 5 million. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland and abroad. Changes During 1994 Capital January 1. All financial restrictions on investments in long-term foreign securities by residents were re- moved. Investments in inward and outward short- term securities were permitted, subject to a limit of ISK 1 million for resident individuals and of ISK 175 million for resident mutual funds. The limit on in- vestments in short-term domestic securities by non- residents was set at ISK 75 million. Short-term foreign borrowing and lending by residents to non- residents other than trade credits were permitted up to a limit of ISK 5 million. The ceiling on deposits of residents with foreign institutions was removed. Changes During 1995 Administration of Control January 1. A new exchange regulation came into effect. This regulation confirmed the liberalization ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 ICELAND of foreign exchange transactions as was gradually set out in Exchange Act No. 87/1992. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange receipts by resi- dents was abolished. All financial limits on short- term capital movements were removed. The re- quirement that securities must be purchased through intermediary authorized dealers was abol- ished, and restrictions on forward contracts and other financial derivatives were abolished. The only remaining restrictions on capital movements con- cern the issuing of debt instruments by foreign gov- ernments in Iceland. Foreign direct investments by nonresidents in some business sectors are restricted by Act No. 34/1991, and purchases or rights to use real estate in Iceland are governed by the provisions of Act No. 19/1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee, the ex- change value of which is determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India pur- chases spot U.S. dollars from any authorized per- son at its designated offices or branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. It does not normally purchase spot deutsche mark, Japanese yen, or pounds sterling, and it does not purchase or sell forward any currency. The Re- serve Bank is obligated to sell spot U.S. dollars on the basis of the market exchange rate only for debt- service payment purposes on behalf of the Govern- ment of India. The Reserve Bank does not sell forward any cur- rency to authorized dealers but may enter into swap transactions, under which it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for two to six months. Purchases and sales of U.S. dollars are made by the Reserve Bank in multiples of $5,000, with a mini- mum of $25,000. Exchange rates against other currencies are de- rived from the cross rate of the U.S. dollar with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase and sell spot and sell forward currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU)1 at rates determined on the basis of the Reserve Bank's reference rate for the rupee in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is calculated with reference to the rates prevailing in the interbank market around noon and the SDR-U.S. dollar rate published by the IMF. Authorized dealers may maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies," that is, foreign currencies that are freely convertible (currencies that the authorities of the countries concerned per- mit to be converted into major currencies and for which a fairly active market exists for dealings against other major currencies). Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in European currency units (ECUs). Au- thorized dealers are permitted to deal spot or for- ward in any permitted currency; however, there are restrictions on authorized dealers' net foreign ex- change exposure in respect of their borrowing and Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the Reserve Bank does not deal in Nepalese rupees. lending activities abroad. Forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. On December 31, 1994, the indicative market rate (average of the buy- ing and selling rates) for telegraphic transfers in the New York market was Rs 31.41 per US$1; on De- cember 30, 1994, the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for the U.S. dollar was Rs 31.37 per US$1. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of In- dia, Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against ex- change fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract; exchange cover is offered in Austra- lian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the dis- cretion of the ECGC. Administration of Control India formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 15,1994. Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: member countries of the ACU (except Nepal) and the external group (all other countries). Payments to countries other than the member countries of the ACU may be made in Indian rupees to the accounts of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency.2 2A11 remittances by nationals of China to any country outside India and all remittances to China by any person residing in In- dia, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3,1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and China, remittances arising out of trade trans- actions are permitted in comformity with exchange control regu- lations. Restrictions on non-trade-related transactions with China have been abolished. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in China or Pakistan without prior 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA Receipts from countries other than the member countries of the ACU may be obtained in Indian ru- pees from accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or in banks situated in any of the countries in the external group or in any permitted currency. Receipts from the external group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the accounts of banks situated in any country in the group; the accounts must be maintained with an authorized dealer or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may apply in respect of exports under lines of credit ex- tended by the Government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. All payments on account of eligible current international transactions between India and other members of the ACU ex- cept Nepal are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement, as are transactions effected on a deferred basis with the ACU countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of In- dian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.3 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresi- dent accounts. Accounts of banks in the external group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other autho- rized purposes with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of persons and firms (includ- ing banks), and with proceeds from sales of permit- ted currencies. They may be debited for payments of exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for trans- fers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to nonresident ex- ternal rupee (NRER) accounts. The balances in the accounts of banks may be converted into any per- mitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of re- mittances received in any permitted currency from reference to the Reserve Bank but must obtain approval before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistan banks operating outside Pakistan. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they may also effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations ap- plicable to such remittances; remittances for other purposes re- quire prior approval from the Reserve Bank. 3However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange re- quirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted cur- rency during his or her visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks, and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are required to as- certain the bona fide nature of the transaction be- fore crediting the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by the general or special per- mission of the Reserve Bank, other than for pay- ments toward investments in India. Nonresident external rupee accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of In- dian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state coop- erative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee ac- counts subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of for- eign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of resi- dence of the account holder or from any country other than the members of the ACU. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign cur- rency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India and also with income on au- thorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or foreign currency nonresi- dent accounts is also allowed for bona fide per- sonal purposes if the transferrers and transferees are residents of countries other than those in the ACU. The accounts may be debited for disburse- ment in India and for transfers abroad. Debiting is also permitted for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency, rupee traveler's checks, or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his or her family and dependents, and, in the case of cor- porate entities, for the use of directors and employ- ees. Investments in the shares of Indian companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 or in partnership firms and the like or in immov- able property may be made with the specific or gen- eral approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from the personal income tax although juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and juridical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the gift tax. Foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts de- nominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality and by overseas companies specified above. These ac- counts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including inter- est. Balances may be repatriated at any time with- out reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used for the purposes for which debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Effective May 15,1993, a new FCNR (Banks) Scheme was introduced, and the previous FCNR (A) scheme was abolished, ef- fective August 14,1994; however, the exchange rate guarantees (issued by the RBI) on existing deposits under the scheme will remain in effect until the de- posits mature. The FCNR (B) operates in the same manner as the existing FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) provides the ex- change rate guarantee on deposit balances. Nonresident (Nonrepayable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominately owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Ban- gladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from ex- isting NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any time. With effect from October 1, 1994, accruing interest has been permitted to be transferred abroad. Foreign currency ordinary (nonrepatriable) deposit ac- counts may be maintained by nonresidents.4 These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited with funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee value of the principal and ac- 4With effect from August 20, 1994, commercial banks have been prohibited from accepting new deposits, and, with effect from October 1,1994, interest accruing on existing balances has been permitted to be transferred abroad. crued interest may be credited to the ordinary non- resident rupee accounts of the depositor. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Fiji, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. The current export and import policy, which came into effect on April 1,1992 and —with its sub- sequent amendments—is valid for five years, con- tains the policy governing imports. Capital goods, raw materials, components, spare parts, accesso- ries, instruments, and other goods are freely im- portable without any restriction by any person, whether the actual user or not, unless such imports are regulated by the negative list of imports. The negative list of imports consists of prohibited items, restricted items, and canalized items. The prohibited items are tallow, fat, and/or oils that are rendered, unrendered, or otherwise of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals (including their parts and products), and ivory. All consumer goods (including consumer durables) except those specifi- cally permitted are restricted and their importation is permitted only against a license. Also the impor- tation of certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; safety, security, and related items; seeds, plants, and animals; insecticides and pesti- cides; drugs and pharmaceuticals; chemicals and al- lied items relating to the small-scale sector; and certain other items is restricted. The importation of restricted items is allowed selectively against a li- cense or in accordance with general schemes laid down through public notices for import based on the merit of the application. A large number of con- sumer goods, including all edible oils (excluding coconut oil, palm kernel oil, RED palm oil and ABD palm stearin) sugar, cameras, roasted or decaffein- ated coffee (in bulk packaging), paper and paper products of various types, sports goods, and wood and wood products of various types, are freely im- portable. The importation of restricted items has been liberalized by permitting a large number of specified restricted items (including certain con- sumer goods) to be imported against freely trans- ferable special import licenses that are granted to export houses, trading houses, star trading houses, super star trading houses, and exporters and manu- facturers who have acquired prescribed quality cer- tification. Certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible and nonedible oils, seeds and cereals are canalized for import through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Cor- poration Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corpo- ration of India Ltd., State Trading Corporation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Gold and silver may be imported with transferable special import licenses. However, the importation of gold up to 5 kilograms is allowed as part of the baggage of passengers of Indian origin or passen- gers holding a valid passport issued under the Passports Act of 1967 coming to India after staying abroad for a period of not less than six months and subject to payment of customs duty in convertible currency. Import licenses are issued with a validity of 12 months; in the case of capital goods imports, they are valid for 24 months. Advance licenses are granted for duty-free imports of raw materials, intermediates, components, consumables, parts, accessories, packing materials, and computer soft- ware required for direct use in the product to be ex- ported. When a valid import license is held, the required foreign exchange is released by an autho- rized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. Li- cense holders may make payments by opening let- ters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. The contracting of suppliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long-term import credits is subject to prior approval. Payments for imports may not generally be made before shipping documents are submitted, except for goods with import values of up to 15 percent with a maximum of up to $5,000. Advance payments in excess of $5,000 (up to 15 percent in the case of capital goods) may be made by authorized dealers against guarantees from a bank of international repute outside India. However, in special cases—for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for ad- vance payment for a part of the value of the import. In addition to any applicable import duty, im- ports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 50 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to approve payments for invisibles and remit- tances up to specified limits. These limits are indicative, and all bona fide requests for amounts exceeding these limits are approved by the Reserve Bank. Authority has also been delegated to autho- rized banks to approve remittances for certain pur- poses, without any limits, subject to certain guidelines. Restrictions on the transfer abroad of current income (net of taxes) earned on investments by nonresident Indians and overseas corporations predominantly owned by nonresident Indians and other current income, such as pensions, are to be eliminated in a phased manner during the financial years 1994/95 to 1996/97. Earnings that have accu- mulated during the period up to March 31, 1994, however, will remain nontransferable. Under the statement of industrial policy announced in July 1991, transfers abroad of dividends by nonresident investors in consumer goods industries must be balanced by export earnings for a period of seven years from the date of commencement of commer- cial production. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside per- manently in India may be paid only in foreign cur- rency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance poli- cies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries whose permanent residence is outside of India are allowed, subject to certain conditions and provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their fami- lies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than those from China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 75 percent of net income, provided that they hold valid employment visas. Resident Indian nationals may travel abroad freely without exchange formalities. Effective March 1, 1994, exchange facilities have been avail- able to resident Indian nationals under the Basic Travel Quota Scheme. Under this scheme, foreign exchange up to $2,000 a person may be released by authorized dealers for one or more trips abroad, ex- cept visits to Bhutan and Nepal; in the determina- tion of eligibility under this scheme, all foreign travel other than that covered under the Basic Travel Quota is disregarded. The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, in general, prohibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian cur- rency notes in denominations higher than Rs 100 is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 1,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $50 or its equivalent to those going to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $10,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. Students going to foreign universities with full bur- saries receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to $1,500 a person for settling in and for purchasing initial equipment. There is also an allowance of $500 to cover the initial expenses of persons travel- ing abroad for employment purposes and a travel allowance of $500 for medical checkups and consul- tations abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Fiji, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Border trade (that is, frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of China is allowed. Goods may be exported without a license, provided that they are not prohibited, restricted through licens- ing, or canalized. Restricted products5 may not be exported unless covered by a valid license issued by the licensing authority concerned. Some exports are prohibited,6 and hides, skins, and leather are subject to export duties; other items, including stone boulders and wheat, are subject to minimum export prices as may be set if required.7 A substantial number of exports, mainly new man- ufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, ma- ^he exportation of certain products, including some mineral ores and concentrates, is permitted subject to licensing. ^hese indude all forms of wildlife, including their parts and products; exotic birds; all items of plants included in Appendix I of the convention on International Trade in Endangered Species; beef; human skeletons; tallow, fats and/or oils of any animal ori- gin excluding fish oil; and wood and wood products in the form of logs, timber, stumps, roots, bark, chips, powder, flakes, dust, pulp, and charcoal. With effect from April 1,1993, wild orchids, chemicals included in Schedule I of the Chemical Weapons Con- vention of the United Nations, sandalwood excluding some fully finished products, and red sanders wood in any form were in- cluded on the prohibited list of exports. 7Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are per- mitted on a decontrolled basis. line products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and jute and coir products), receive import duty drawbacks, a refund of the central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists may, with the approval of cus- toms, take out of India articles purchased with for- eign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds from exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. Exporters must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accor- dance with the prescription of currency regula- tions. Foreign exchange earnings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer. Exporters and other recipients of foreign exchange are per- mitted to retain up to 20 percent of receipts in for- eign currency accounts with banks in India. In the case of 100 percent export-oriented units, units in export processing zones, and units in hardware/ software technology parts, up to 50 percent of for- eign exchange receipts may be retained. Export pro- ceeds must be repatriated by the due date of receipt or within six months of shipment, whichever is ear- lier, and surrendered to authorized dealers, as re- quired, unless specifically permitted by general or special permission from the Reserve Bank to retain them either with authorized dealers in India or with banks abroad. In respect of exports made to Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the Reserve Bank, a maximum period of 15 months is allowed for realization of ex- port proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain per- mission from the Reserve Bank through authorized dealers in the event that the export value is not realized within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank also administers a scheme under which engi- neering goods (capital goods and consumer dura- bles) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the full export value is paid in installments over more than six months. The status of exporters is based on their average gross and average net export earnings in the pre- ceding three years, as follows (figures in parenthe- ses indicate minimum average gross and minimum average net export earnings, respectively: export houses (Rs 100 million and Rs 60 million); trading houses (Rs 500 million and 300 million); star trad- ing houses (Rs 2.5 billion and Rs 1.25 billion); and super star trading houses (Rs 7.5 billion and Rs 4 billion). Exporters are also granted a certificate of export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house status (1) if their gross export earnings dur- ing the preceding year were Rs 150 million, Rs 750 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA million, Rs 3 billion, or Rs 10 billion, respectively; (2) if their net foreign exchange earnings during the preceding licensing year were Rs 120 million, Rs 600 million, Rs 1,500 million, or Rs 6,000 million, respectively, or (3) if their net export earnings dur- ing the preceding licensing year were Rs 150 mil- lion, Rs 750 million, Rs 3 billion, or Rs 10 million, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sold in the interbank market. The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring into India Indian currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 1,000 a person in Indian cur- rency notes from other countries if they previously took out this amount when leaving India to travel abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of for- eign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign ex- change or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward re- mittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent use of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligi- ble for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, subject to the maximum of $500,000 or its equivalent for meeting requirements of normal exchange business. They may obtain loans or overdrafts from their overseas branches or correspondents in excess of this limit solely for the purpose of replenishing their rupee resources in India without prior approval from the Reserve Bank; repayment of such borrowings re- quires prior approval from the Reserve Bank or may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank or financial institution and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. Persons residing in India may not borrow any foreign exchange from persons residing inside or outside India without prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The contracting of all foreign cur- rency loans and credits secured from nonresident persons and companies (including banks) as well as repayment of such loans and credits and payments of interest and other charges on such loans require prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The proce- dure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by Indian entities envisages that borrowing propos- als, except when loans are for less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they may be approved by the Reserve Bank. Nonresidents, noncitizens, and nonbank compa- nies not incorporated under Indian law must have permission from the Reserve Bank to initiate, ex- pand, or continue any business activity in India and to hold or acquire shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India.8 8Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company engaged in any activity except agricultural or plantation activities and real estate business (excluding real estate development, that is, con- struction of houses, etc.), or in any partnership or proprietary concern engaged in any activity other than real estate business and agricultural or plantation activity, provided that funds for in- vestment are either remitted from abroad through normal bank- ing channels or are drawn from their nonresident accounts, that an undertaking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be re- quested, and that overall limits on holdings of shares and con- vertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas compa- nies, societies, and partnership firms that are owned to the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or ori- gin and overseas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the benefi- cial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies as defined above may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio in- vestments, with repatriation benefits, up to 1 percent of the capi- tal, provided that their holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or a nonrepatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each se- ries of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned. However, if a company so resolves through a General Body Reso- lution, then purchases of shares or debentures of such a company could be made up to 24 percent as against 5 percent mentioned at (b) above; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certificates with full repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manu- facturing projects, hospitals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, and shipping, software, and oil ex- ploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; (4) invest up to 100 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries listed in Annex III to the Statement on New Industrial Policy with free re- patriation of such investment; and (5) investment in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses, etc.) up to 100 percent of new investments may have to be locked-in for a period of three years for disinvestment. After three years, remittances of disinvestment will be allowed up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 Foreign Direct Investment in India. Before the an- nouncement of the new industrial policy on July 24, 1991, foreign investment in India was being permit- ted provided that it was accompanied by a technol- ogy transfer. Foreign direct investments were per- mitted in industries that required sophisticated technology, industries that were experiencing criti- cal production gaps, or industries that could expand their exports. Generally, an equity partici- pation of up to 40 percent was permitted. If the re- quired foreign technology was highly sophisticated or the project was predominantly export oriented, a larger foreign equity participation was permitted. The policy relating to foreign investment in free trade zones and export-oriented industrial units was relatively more liberal, and foreign equity up to 100 percent was permitted. Approval for these in- vestments was granted by the Secretariat for Indus- trial Approvals (SIA) in the Ministry of Industry or, for firms in the free trade zones, by the Ministry of Commerce. On July 24,1991, a new industrial policy was an- nounced under which industrial licensing, foreign direct investments, foreign technology agreements, and public sector policy were liberalized. In the area of foreign direct investment, the requirement that such investments must involve transfer of tech- nology was abolished, and the Reserve Bank was authorized to grant automatic approval for invest- ments up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of the Indian companies that are engaged in manufactur- ing activities in the 35 priority manufacturing sec- tors. Applications for investments in areas that do not fall within the authority of the Reserve Bank but that are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). Such investments may be approved up to 100 percent of capital on a case-by-case basis. The SIA in the Ministry of Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct invest- ment, including approvals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) including in- stitutions (e.g., pension funds, mutual funds, in- the original investment in foreign exchange. In case of overseas corporate bodies, profits will be allowed to be repatriated up to 16 percent. Income from the investment will also be allowed to be repatriated after deduction of applicable domestic taxes. Nonres- ident Indians and overseas companies as defined above may also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with full repatriation benefits, provided that (1) the deposits are made for three years, (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for ac- ceptance of deposits by such companies, and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors through remittances from abroad or through payments from their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts. Special tax concessions apply to investments by nonresident Indians. vestment trusts, asset management companies, nominee companies, and incorporated or institu- tional portfolio managers) are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities and instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs are required to reg- ister initially with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and with the Reserve Bank. The authorization from the Reserve Bank enables FIIs to (1) open accounts denominated in foreign currency; (2) open nonresident rupee accounts for the purposes of operating securities investments; (3) transfer balances between foreign currency ac- counts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad repatriate capital, capital gains, dividends, and interest income. Portfolio investments in pri- mary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 5 percent of the issued share capital for individ- ual FIIs holding and 24 percent of issued share cap- ital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (1) foreign in- vestments under financial collaboration, which are permitted up to 51 percent, and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts, and convertibles in the euromarket. Investment in Trading Companies. Trading compa- nies must be registered with the Ministry of Com- merce and must obtain a certificate of their status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the Reserve Bank of India for remittance or dividends. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. The Reserve Bank is responsible for permitting foreign investment of up to 51 percent of the paid-up capi- tal of such Indian companies. A higher percentage is considered for approval by the FIPB and even 100 percent foreign equity may be approved, pro- vided that the funding company is primarily en- gaged in exports. Increase in foreign Equity in Existing Companies. Foreign equity shares in the existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio to 51 percent of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the for- eign investor. Firms in certain manufacturing in- dustries and tourist industries (hotels, restaurants, and beach resorts) may increase the equity ratio im- mediately. Others may increase the equity ratio as part of expansion, provided the expansion is in specified manufacturing or tourist industries. In both cases, the Reserve Bank grants automatic approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to residents. How- ever, sales and transfers of shares of Indian compa- nies through stock exchanges in India by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin in favor of Indian citizens or persons of Indian origin and In- dian companies do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance when the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferrer are credited to his or her ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. The transfer of shares by nonresidents in favor of nonresidents, residents, or non-FERA companies does not require clearance from the Reserve Bank, provided that the shares are purchased by the nonresidents under the portfolio investment scheme on a repatriation basis and are sold on stock exchanges through the same autho- rized dealer. In such cases, the sale proceeds may be credited to NRE or FCNR accounts after deduction of tax or may be remitted abroad. The following capital transactions by residents require approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) hold- ing, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immov- able property outside India (unless acquired while a nonresident of India); (2) exportation of Indian securities and transfers of Indian securities to non- residents; (3) guaranteeing of obligations of a non- resident or of a resident in favor of a nonresident; and (4) association with, or participation in, the capital of any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be generally repatri- ated at any time. However, approval must be ob- tained from the Reserve Bank before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are granted foreign exchange fa- cilities up to $500 a person or $1,000 a family for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hard- ship, foreign exchange may be released up to a rea- sonable amount in one lump sum; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a non- resident account, and no further remittances, in- cluding pensions, if any, are normally allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (that is, July 1947, against the former Sterling Area countries, and September 1939 against other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 500,000. Foreign nationals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of Pakistan) and foreign diplomatic persons are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 1 million for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 500,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remitta- ble assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of for- eign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not perma- nently residing in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently residing in India) who are nat- ural persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. For- eign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer initially a sum of Rs 1 million when they leave India permanently; thereafter, they are al- lowed to remit up to Rs 500,000 a year out of capital and income. Transfers abroad of legacies, inherit- ances, and bequests by persons who were never resi- dents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, residing abroad, and wishing to return to India are not required to sur- render, on their arrival, foreign currency assets they acquired lawfully while residing outside India, pro- vided they stayed abroad continuously for at least one year. Under the Resident Foreign Currency Account Scheme, Indian nationals (returning permanently to India from abroad) are permitted, within three months of their arrival, to open and operate with- out restriction resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with authorized dealers in India; all foreign exchange transferred from abroad may be credited to these accounts. Gold The Gold Control Act of 1968 was repealed on June 6,1990 by the Gold Control Repeal Act of 1990, which eliminated restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohib- ited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 The importation and exportation of gold in any form by residents are regulated by the import policy in force. Authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank. Exporters of gold and silver jewelry may import their essential inputs such as gold, silver mountings, findings, rough gems, pre- cious and semiprecious synthetic stones and un- processed pearls, etc., with import licenses granted by the licensing authority. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supply, in advance, gold or silver, free of charge, for manufacture and ultimate export of gold or silver jewelry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewelry and Articles Export Pro- motion and Replenishment Scheme, exporters of gold jewelry and articles are entitled for replenish- ment of gold, through the designated branches of the State Bank of India or any other agency nomi- nated by the Ministry of Commerce at a price indi- cated in the certificate issued by the State Bank of India after purchase of gold. The Scheme is limited to exports that are supported by an irrevocable let- ter of credit, payment of cash on a delivery basis, or advance payment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold jewelry may also be allowed on a collection basis (documents against acceptance). The exporter has the option to obtain gold from the State Bank of India in advance. On presentation of required docu- ments, the appropriate release order and gem re- plenishment license may be issued by the licensing authority, provided that the exporters satisfy value- added and other requirements under the Scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the met- als are needed for a particular purpose. Special per- mission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exportation, pro- vided that payments for the importation will not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign ex- change through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value and jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement August 15. India formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Arti- cles of Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts August 14. Exchange rate guarantees provided on deposits under the Foreign Currency Nonresident Account Scheme were abolished (guarantees on ex- isting deposits, however, will remain in effect until these deposits mature). August 19. The authorities announced that, with effect from October 1,1994, interest accruing under the Nonresident (Nonrepatriable) Rupee Deposit Scheme would be allowed to be transferred abroad. August 19. Commercial banks were prohibited from accepting new deposits under the Foreign Cur- rency (Ordinary) Nonrepatriable Deposit Scheme. With effect from October 1, 1994, interest accruing on existing balances would be permitted to be trans- ferred abroad. Payments for Invisibles August 14. (1) The authorities announced that the limits on foreign exchange allowances for certain payments and transfers for current international transactions that commercial banks are authorized to provide are indicative, and that all bona fide re- quests for amounts exceeding these limits, as well as those for foreign exchange for which there are no specific limits, would be approved by the Reserve Bank of India without delay. (2) The present restric- tions on transfers abroad of income (net of tax) earned on investment by nonresident Indian na- tionals would be liberalized as follows: (a) with im- mediate effect, $1,000 earned during the financial year 1994/95 plus one-third of the amount in excess of $1,000 would be allowed to be transferred; (b) during the financial year 1995/96, $1,000 earned during the year plus two-thirds of the amount in excess of $1,000 will be allowed to be transferred; and (c) beginning in the financial year 1996/97, the full amount of income earned during the year would be allowed to be transferred. Earnings that have been accumulated during the period up to the financial year 1994/95, however, would remain nontransferable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Ru- piah. Its exchange value is determined by Bank In- donesia under a system of managed float, under which Bank Indonesia announces daily buying and selling rates that are computed on the basis of a bas- ket of weighted currencies with a spread of plus or minus Rp 15. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. On December 31, 1994, the buying and sell- ing rates for spot transactions were Rp 2,185 and Rp 2,215, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined by refer- ence to the cross rates of the U.S. dollar and the cur- rencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange rates announced by Bank Indonesia apply only to certain transactions undertaken at certain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. Purchases and sales of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 8:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. on the basis of buying and selling rates announced at 3:00 p.m. of the previous business day. Spot and forward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. In addition, from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, Bank Indone- sia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally conducted to enable the banks to adjust their net open positions. At other times, spot and forward transactions are con- ducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank In- donesia and the banks concerned. Foreign ex- change transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institu- tions, and licensed money changers. Bank Indone- sia trades unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with authorized traders at its interven- tion rates for the day. Two types of swap facilities are operated by Bank Indonesia: liquidity swaps on the initiative of Bank lrrhose commonly used in Indonesia's international transac- tions: Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bru- nei dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ma- laysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. Indonesia and investment swaps with a maturity of more than two years operated on the initiative of banks. The commercial banks' weekly net foreign ex- change open positions are limited to 25 percent of capital. Separate limits apply to total exposures and off-balance-sheet exposures. A bank whose net open position exceeds the limit is subject to a penalty. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7,1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Policies on for- eign exchange market operations are established by Bank Indonesia. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indo- nesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. However, if holders of ac- counts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals may be authorized as import- ers, although foreign investors are permitted to im- port the items required for their own projects. Although all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the nonresident license (also called General Im- porter License). 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 235 Imports from Israel and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain products. In ad- dition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministries of Trade and of Industry. Certain cat- egories of agricultural imports, including different categories of food, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. Since mid-1985, import controls on several prod- uct categories (e.g., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agricultural products) have been progressively removed. Controls remain on about 12 percent of total imports. Imports of cer- tain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. For example, Pertamina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and FT Dahana, on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar, but its monopoly on maize imports was revoked in Sep- tember 1989 and that on soybean meal in June 1991. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, al- though this right may be transferred to general im- porters. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Certain products are granted preferen- tial duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by agen- cies designated by the Government of Indonesia; inspection expenses are borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspection, the FT Sur- veyor Indonesia in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the exporting country a sur- vey report (LPS) specifying the type, quality, quan- tity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value-added taxes; the LPS must be sent by the agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened letters of credit or, for imports not covered by letters of credit, to the bank designated by the importer. After paying taxes and duties based on the price fixed by the agency, the importer presents all import documents to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LPS, except those that are valued at less than $5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports for foreign capital investment and domestic capital in- vestment must have an LPS. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage elec- tric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohib- ited, as are exports to all countries of certain catego- ries of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass, and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain producer-exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their prod- ucts. Quality controls are also maintained on certain products, including fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domes- tic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to suspension of exports of various items in this cate- gory. In 1990, producer-exporters of cement and clinkers were allowed to export these products with the approval of the Ministry of Trade, as shortages developed on the domestic market. Several catego- ries of gold and silver may be exported only by ex- porters who possess certification from PTAneka Tambang and authorization from the Ministry of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. How- ever, manioc (cassava) may be exported only by approved exporters. As of November 1, 1989, pep- per is exempt from certain previous export restric- tions and may henceforth be exported by all companies possessing a trade permit. Exports of 2Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fer- tilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods pro- duced from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDONESIA nutmeg and mace, cassiavera, tengkowang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from North Sumatra have been liberalized since May 1990. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be exported only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commod- ity Exchange Board. All exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Ex- ports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be made only by approved exporters. A minimum price of $250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber, and export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are im- posed on these products. In 1992, bans on log ex- ports were replaced with export taxes. Although export taxes on raw logs range from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter, certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, panels, and molding, are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes, which range from 5 percent to 30 percent (the tax rate on leather products is 20 percent, and the tax rates on rattan are $14-$15 a kilogram). For all goods subject to the export tax and the ex- port surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Promis- sory notes may be settled in three ways. Exports without a letter of credit should be settled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. Exports using con- signment and usance letters of credit should be set- tled not later than 90 days from the date of export registration. Exports with sight letters of credit con- ditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There are no surrender or repatriation requirements for export proceeds. In the calculation of export taxes on the principal commodities, other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "in- dicative" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer-exporters to obtain their im- ported inputs at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import tar- iffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by non-tariff barri- ers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 (Malaysian ringgit) for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether transported overland or by sea. For the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessels or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government may require all foreign firms bidding for govern- ment-sponsored construction or procurement proj- ects whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million to agree to fulfill a counterpur- chase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must submit with their bids a letter in which they agree to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's f.o.b. value in selected Indonesian products during the life of the contract.4 Goods that may be used to meet the counterpurchase requirement include ag- ricultural products and manufactured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third party, possibly from an- other country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionally"; that is, the counter- purchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas purchased 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total pro- duction) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 percent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Pro- ducer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post docu- mentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their out- put was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permis- sion to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a duty drawback facility. 4The following are exempt from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing derived from soft loans and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian De- velopment Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the con- tract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes or duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, consultants' services, purchases of technology (patents), etc; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 237 under countertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations must be completed at the end of such a purchasing contract. If, when the project is completed or the purchase is implemented (govern- ment import) the exportation from Indonesia has not yet been completed, a penalty amounting to 50 percent of the export value will be imposed on the responsible party (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins, other than gold and silver com- memorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Incentives for foreign direct investments include an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxiliary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 per- cent for fiscal purposes on virtually all machinery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive pref- erential customs duty treatment for imports of re- quired raw materials for the first two years of production activity. Raw materials may be im- ported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re-entry permits for six months and are ex- empt from the Rp 25,000 departure tax. Full foreign ownership in foreign direct invest- ments is allowed in certain sectors if the investments meet certain criteria. Pursuant to Government Regu- lation No. 20/1944 (July 29,1994), foreign investors may reinvest profits in the shares of other foreign firms. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to depreciation allowances. The law pro- vides that no transfer permit shall be issued for cap- ital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. Foreign ownership of direct investment must be- gin to be divested by the eleventh year of produc- tion. For large investments (above $50 million), divestment of 51 percent must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign ex- change banks. However, foreign exchange banks are subject to .Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of de- posit to nonresidents. A reserve requirement of 2 percent is applicable to the foreign currency liabili- ties of foreign exchange banks; no reserve require- ments are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or private companies. As of November 1991, banks' short-term foreign ex- change liabilities may not exceed 30 percent of their own capital, and they are required to allocate at least 80 percent of all foreign exchange credits to export- oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. A Commercial Offshore Loan Team (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic portfo- lios, and the Governor of Bank Indonesia) estab- lished in September 1991, supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. These limits do not apply to pri- vate enterprises. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na- tionality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in for- eign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petro- leum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in In- donesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins is- sued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 INDONESIA Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement September 6. Bank Indonesia ceased to announce an indicative exchange rate in the morning. Instead it began announcing buying and selling rates at 3:00 p.m., computed on the basis of a basket of weighted currencies with a spread of plus or minus Rp 15. (Prior to that date, the spread was plus or minus Rp 10.) In addition, the limits on banks' open positions were liberalized whereby banks were re- quired to meet a net open position of 25 percent of capital instead of 20 percent, and the open position requirement would no longer apply to individual currencies. Imports and Import Payments June 27. The Government announced import de- regulation measures, including reductions in capi- tal imports on 739 tariff codes, the liberalization of nontariff barriers on 27 product lines, and the lifting of surcharges from 108 import items. At the same time, import duties were increased on 38 tariff codes related to alcoholic products. In addition, any remaining nontariff protection of domestic indus- try, such as import restrictions and regulations, were to be gradually replaced by tariff protection. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial. The exchange rate system consists of the following rates: (1) the official rate, which is fixed at Rls 1,750 per US$1, applies mainly to the imports of essential goods; (2) the official export rate, which is fixed at Rls 2,345 per US$1, is applied mainly to imports of raw materials and spare parts (the supply of foreign exchange at the first two rates comes from the Government's oil export proceeds); (3) the authorized dealers' market rate, which is de- termined by supply (mainly tourist receipts) and demand (mainly for nonessential services and transfers, such as the travel allowance) (on Decem- ber 31,1994, this rate was Rls 2,680 per US$1); and (4) the free market exchange rate, which results largely from direct transactions between importers and exporters, with little intermediation from the banks and no intervention from Bank Markazi. On December 31, 1994, this rate varied between Rls 3,000 and Rls 3,100 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the banking system. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions, other than those permitted through the free exchange market, must take place through the banking sys- tem. Imports and exports are governed by regula- tions issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval from the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) are required to be effected in Asian monetary units (AMUs); settlements with these countries are made every two months through conversion of AMUs. All bilateral payment arrangements have been terminated and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. The balances of the rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce before being registered with authorized banks, except for special military goods, pharma- ceuticals, and souvenirs and gifts brought in by in- coming travelers. Imports from Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro) are prohibited. The import policy is re-examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20), and new regulations effective for the following year are published by the Ministry of Commerce. The regulations distinguish between "authorized," "conditional," and "prohibited" goods. The impor- tation of authorized goods is unrestricted. Condi- tional goods are those goods whose importation is temporarily prohibited by the Government or is contingent on the fulfillment of certain require- ments. Imports of prohibited goods are not al- lowed. Advance payments for imports of up to the full value are allowed, depending on the goods. Most imports are subject to the commercial bene- fit tax, which is either specific or ad valorem and is imposed in addition to applicable customs duties. The monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benefit tax; the rate of the commercial benefit tax for each year is specified in the Export- Import Regulations. The commercial benefit tax must be paid to customs before clearance of goods. Clearance through customs is authorized upon pre- sentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the Min- istry of Commerce (this permit may be issued at the same time that letters of credit are opened and it need not be reissued). Certain goods, such as phar- maceuticals and imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special permit when they are cleared through cus- toms. Payments for imports made with foreign cur- rency must be accompanied by evidence that the currency was obtained from an Iranian bank before the goods may be released from customs. In the 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN transportation of imported goods for which import letters of credit have been opened, priority must be accorded to Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). The ceiling on the amount of goods that an incoming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the export-import regulations. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance at the official rate can be made by the Central Insurance Company of Iran, Iran Insurance Company, Asia In- surance Company, and Alborz Insurance Company through their respective foreign exchange accounts. Insurance companies owned by Iranian residents may issue insurance contracts denominated in for- eign currency for imports of goods; only Iran Insur- ance Company may issue war-risk insurance in foreign currency. The transfer of income in rials earned from ticket sales by foreign airline compa- nies located in Iran may be allowed at the official exchange rate with the permission of Bank Markazi. Persons requiring medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange at the official exchange rate up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health. Foreign exchange allowances at the official exchange rate are granted to students in nonmedical fields with the approval of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education, and to those in the medical field, with the approval of the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. The amount of allowances varies ac- cording to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a maximum of $1,470 a month; an additional 60 percent of the basic allowance for a spouse and 30 percent for each child is authorized. In certain cases when this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts to cover university fees and expenses may be allowed. The transfer of profits and dividends earned on foreign direct investment can be made freely at the official exchange rate. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose services are con- sidered essential are allowed to remit up to 30 per- cent of their net salaries at the official exchange rate with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Iranian nationals traveling abroad may export up to $1,000 for each individual passport; a maximum of $500 a person may be exported if a person travels with a group passport. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee of Rls 70,000 for each trip. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 200,000 in Iranian banknotes, but they may import any amount of Ira- nian banknotes through foreign branches of Iranian banks. Foreign exchange from accounts denominated in foreign currency originating abroad may be trans- ferred by natural persons without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products must be made in accor- dance with relevant regulations. Exports to Israel, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro) are prohibited. Exports of non-oil prod- ucts are not subject to limitation; the only require- ment is that authorization be obtained for statistical purposes from the Ministry of Commerce. Exporters of non-oil products may sell foreign exchange pro- ceeds to commercial banks at the export rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Iranian nationals may retain their foreign ex- change earnings in foreign currency accounts with the authorized banks. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. The sale of foreign exchange to the banking system at the official exchange rate by both resident and nonresident juridical and natural per- sons is permitted. Capital Foreign direct investment is supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, if the investment was origi- nally brought into the country in accordance with the law concerning the attraction and protection of foreign capital investments in Iran. Repatriation of capital may be effected with the approval of this agency and Bank Markazi, and in accordance with the above-mentioned law. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. Authority to export or import gold for mone- tary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. The exportation of finished articles made of gold, plati- num, and silver may be effected in accordance with the relevant regulations. The exportation of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots, coins, or semifinished products is prohibited except by Bank Markazi. Natural and juridical persons, including authorized banks, may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for commercial purposes in accor- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 241 dance with the relevant regulations. Travelers may bring in jewelry up to a value equivalent to Rls 5 million, and take out the entire value, provided that it is recorded on their passport; the importation of personal jewelry with a value exceeding this amount requires approval from Bank Markazi. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numis- matic purposes requires prior approval from Bank Markazi. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 4. An "export rate" was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 33,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 per US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1994 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also offi- cially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transac- tions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank. Certain ap- proval authority has been delegated to the Depart- ment of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a li- censed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor. Branches of the Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed dealers. The Ministry of Trade formulates import policy and the annual program. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents of Iraqi and Arab na- tionality are allowed to open foreign currency ac- counts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts without restriction, pro- vided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, foreign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementa- tion of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These exemptions apply to new projects that are con- tracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 has ceased to be effective, except that its provisions continue to apply to projects that were contracted before Resolution No. 767 took ef- fect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the ex- change control copy of the import license except in some instances, when reference must be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign ex- change obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. 1Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterfing, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 243 medical expenses abroad, freight on exports ef- fected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royal- ties, and the like. Exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are Arab nationals and employed by the Ministry of Higher Education and of scientific researchers and medical doctors in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is in- sured and is working in the private sector. Skilled noncontractual workers employed in the national- ized sector by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The basic allowance for travel to Arab and social- ist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain coun- tries (such as India, socialist countries, and North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out IDS in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are per- mitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for per- sonal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimages are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Trade may prohibit the exportation of any com- modity when supply falls short of domestic de- mand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Ser- vices. Exporters of 13 goods manufactured by firms in the public sector must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to sur- render them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in for- eign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. An export subsidy fund was established in 1969 for the purpose of promoting non-oil exports by providing financial incentives to eligible exporters. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The fi- nancial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency) in unlimited amounts, pro- vided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. The im- portation of Iraqi banknotes by travelers is limited to ID 1,000. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, but must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank. Deposits may be con- verted into local currency at the official rate, and re- patriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is al- lowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of Arab states may participate with Ira- qis in projects in the industrial, agricultural ser- vices, and tourism sectors. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may transfer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in for- eign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 100,000 a year ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 IRAQ in three installments to cover personal expenses in- side their country of residence. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab na- tionals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital participation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enter- prise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be distrib- uted to them, provided that the profit does not ex- ceed 20 percent of their paid-in capital; and (3) Arab nationals to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investment purposes in accordance with certain regulations; such inflows are treated as working capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 (dated October 10, 1987), Iraqi residents, nonresidents, or foreigners may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, pro- vided that they declare it upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 5 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ire- land participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units.2 The agreement commits the Central Bank of Ire- land to buy or sell the currencies of the other partic- ipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On January 9, 1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates pen Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Austrian schilling Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner Deutsche mark French francs Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos3 Spanish pesetas4 6.34544 5.07635 2.33503 12.62610 48.16960 14.35990 42.74390 4.86881 6.08731 1.73176 9.36403 35.71430 10.65000 31.70070 3.61092 4.51462 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. On December 31, 1994, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $1.4066 per £Ir 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1, 1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9, 1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 4.69841 and 3.48453. 4Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 6.86120 and 4.19850. 245 Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control No exchange controls are in effect in Ireland. Import licenses, when necessary, are issued by the Department of Tourism and Trade for industrial goods and by the Department of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry for agricultural goods; import licenses are also issued in some cases By the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import and ex- port controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Ireland notified the IMF on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Ireland introduced restrictions in respect of Haiti on November 30,1993 in accordance with UN Secu- rity Control Resolution No. 841 of 1993. Restrictions were also introduced in respect of Libya on Decem- ber 23,1993 in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 of 1993. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain deposits in Irish pounds without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-European Union (EU) countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EU may be subject to various charges, such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 IRELAND policy and to duties under the common customs tariff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (for example, specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited with- out special licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not regulated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural New Sheqalim). Its exchange rate is defined in rela- tion to a currency basket consisting of the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a range of 5 percent above and be- low the midpoint rate in response to market forces and intervention policy. Since December 17,1991, both the midpoint and the band have been adjusted gradu- ally at a daily rate ("slope" of the band) that reflects the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation in the main trading partners. The current slope of the band, set as of July 26,1993, is 6 percent on an annual basis. On De- cember 31,1994, the exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 3.018 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in futures and options, including traded contracts, on foreign currencies, foreign interest rates, commodities, and securities prices by both resident companies and in- dividuals are allowed. However, a juridical person may enter into such contracts only to cover com- mercial risks arising from permitted transactions; transactions in commodities may be entered into only in order to cover risks; and transactions, other than in traded contracts, must be concluded against an authorized dealer bank, or, through it, against a foreign bank or broker. Israel formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies and is carried out through autho- rized banks that are permitted to deal in foreign exchange; other institutions (e.g., securities brokers and foreign exchange dealers) possess, or may ob- tain, a limited license to deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency ac- counts does not require prior approval. Account holders may freely effect transfers from their for- eign currency account and may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the market exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of con- vertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds in these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresi- dents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign cur- rency or through a local currency nonresident account. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are two main types of foreign currency ac- counts that Israeli residents may hold: (1) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). Ex- port proceeds and unilateral transfers directly re- ceived from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 6 percent for a cur- rent account and 3 percent for a time deposit ac- count with a maturity of up to one year, and zero for a time deposit account with a maturity exceed- ing one year. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These accounts may be held only by recipients of restitution payments or certain disability pensions. The liquidity require- ment for these accounts was 45 percent on December 31,1994 (it has been gradually and auto- matically reduced at a fixed monthly rate since No- vember 1991, when the rate was 90 percent). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for additional travel allowances. (2) Exempt resident deposit accounts. Certain resi- dents (mostly immigrants) may deposit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Certain reg- ulations stipulate the types of funds that may be de- posited in these accounts. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 ISRAEL In addition, a resident may open a deposit ac- count linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than one month. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of agricultural products, im- ports are free of quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that re- strict or prohibit imports from Israel. Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant docu- ments (import documents, bills of lading, and let- ters of credit) are presented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of sup- pliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year are allowed. A value-added tax of 17 percent is levied on al- most all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegetables. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on ac- count of invisibles, including tourism expenses, is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The indicative limit on foreign travel allowances in cash, traveler's checks, and cash withdrawals on credit cards while overseas was raised to $7,000 a person a trip, with effect from November 1,1994. Additionally, the quantitative re- strictions on the use of credit cards for purchasing tourist services overseas was removed. With these changes, the requirement for pre-departure ap- proval for the use of credit cards while overseas will effectively be .abolished. Residents may make support or gift remittances abroad of up to $2,000 a year. The exchange allowance for students studying at institutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. Foreign ex- change in excess of the above-mentioned amounts is provided on submission of documentary proof of need. Residents going abroad for medical treatment who require hospitalization are permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, they are permitted to pay the remainder of their expenses. Additional payments may be autho- rized on request. Residents, while in Israel, are per- mitted to make credit card payments abroad of up to $1,500 a year. Resident travelers may take out Israeli banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli banknotes up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase, through an authorized dealer at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may pur- chase foreign currency on presentation of docu- ments showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 for a person over 18 years and of $2,000 for a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Is- raeli currency. Requests for any additional amount will be approved upon submission of the necessary documents. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of profits and dividends from foreign direct investment are permitted after local taxes are paid. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Export pro- ceeds in foreign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of export; they may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to authorized banks. However, exporters may retain in a bank account abroad an amount equivalent to the maximum of either 10 percent of their capital or 5 percent of their turnover in the preceding year and use the funds to pay for imports and to make other authorized pay- ments abroad. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs du- ties, wharf charges, and other related charges. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in general, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. Any resident is free to ac- cept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and com- modities other than securities and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There is no limit on the amount of Israeli banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real es- tate, traded securities, and units of mutual trust ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 249 funds in Israel. To repatriate the principal on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an autho- rized bank that these were purchased through a nonresident account. Direct loans from nonresi- dents to Israeli residents are not restricted. Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of in- vestment in the form of equity capital or sharehold- ers' loans may be granted preferential tax treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment. Institutional investors (provident pension and in- surance funds) are permitted to invest up to 2 per- cent of their total assets in recognized foreign securities. Income and profits earned by institu- tional investors from these investments, as well as those earned on exchange rate-indexed deposit and credit, including capital gains, are taxed at the rate of 35 percent. Active incorporated Israeli companies are permit- ted to undertake direct investment abroad (e.g., in subsidiaries and real estate) without any quantita- tive limit on the size of the investment and to hold foreign securities and deposits (exporters only) abroad, provided that the investment does not amount to more than 10 percent of their equity or 5 percent of their sales turnover, whichever is larger. Nonresidents holding Israeli securities or real es- tate are allowed to deposit income from these assets in their foreign currency accounts. Proceeds from sales of these assets are allowed to be deposited in their nonresident accounts, provided that the in- vestment was carried out through a nonresident ac- count. Emigrants are permitted to transfer abroad up to the equivalent of $20,000 a year of their assets kept in Israel up to the end of the second year of stay abroad; during the second to the seventh year of stay abroad, they may transfer up to the equiva- lent of $50,000 a year. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents; if col- lateral is required, it has to be in the form of assets convertible into foreign currency. Individual resi- dents may buy foreign securities traded abroad, provided that the securities are held in a safekeep- ing deposit with an authorized dealer. Israeli mu- tual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in for- eign currency investments). Resident exporters and airline and shipping com- panies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years; otherwise, residents are not normally permit- ted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or income from these assets. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets must be surrendered. Gold Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. Changes During 1994 Payments for Invisibles November 1. The indicative limit on foreign travel allowances in cash, traveler's checks, and cash withdrawals on credit cards while overseas was raised to $7,000 from $3,000 a person a trip. The quantitative restrictions on the use of credit cards for purchasing tourist services overseas was re- moved. As a result the requirement for pre- departure approval for the use of credit cards while overseas was effectively abolished. Capital August 16. (1) Institutional investors (provident pension and insurance funds) were permitted to in- vest up to 2 percent of their total assets in recog- nized foreign securities. Income and profits earned by institutional investors from these investments, as well as those earned on exchange-rate indexed deposit and credit, including capital gains, were taxed at the rate of 35 percent. (2) Active incorpo- rated Israeli companies were permitted to under- take direct investment abroad (e.g., in subsidiaries and real estate) without any quantitative limit on the size of the investment and to hold foreign secu- rities and deposits abroad, provided that the invest- ment does not amount to more than 10 percent of their equity or 5 percent of their sales turnover, whichever is larger. October 1. Foreign currency regulations were amended to allow foreign residents holding Israeli securities or real estate, legally acquired, to deposit income from these assets in foreign currency ac- counts. Proceeds from sales of these assets would be allowed to be deposited in their nonresident ac- counts, provided that the investment was carried out through a nonresident account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira.1 The Ital- ian authorities generally do not intervene in the ex- change market, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are monitored every working day by the Bank of It- aly exclusively for informational purposes. On December 31, 1994, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,624 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and premiums and discounts in the forward ex- change market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with foreign counterparts. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign ex- change transactions freely, with settlements to be ef- fected either through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, and the Postal Administration) or directly, that is, by drawing on external accounts or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. In the case of material delivery of means of payment in Italy or abroad, Italian residents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country Italian or foreign banknotes and bearer securities of any denomina- tion up to the equivalent of Lit 20 million. For fiscal and anti-money-laundering purposes, transfers ex- ceeding this amount must be carried out through authorized intermediaries. Residents are allowed to enter and leave the country carrying securities de- aWith effect from September 17,1992, Italy withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. nominated in lire or in foreign currencies worth Lit 20 million, provided that they are not bearer se- curities and that they are declared to customs. Non- residents may take up to Lit 20 million in banknotes and securities of any denomination into and out of Italy without formalities. If they bring in banknotes and securities in an amount in excess of Lit 20 million, they must declare the excess amount to customs on a special form upon entering Italy. Nonresidents may re-export larger sums but only up to the amount in excess of Lit 20 million that they have imported and declared. No limit applies to exports of other securities; nonresidents need only submit the above-mentioned form to customs. The limitations described above do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as send- ers or beneficiaries. However, banks are also obliged to declare their transfers by filling out a special customs form. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC)) on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return (Comunicazione valutaria statistica). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Italy notified the Fund on August 28, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in re- spect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro).3 Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian province of Trieste. The balances are not transfer- Similar restrictions were applied against Haiti, Libya, and the movement UNITA in Angola toward the end of 1993. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 251 able. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit bal- ance on these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with autho- rized banks in lire and in foreign exchange, which may be freely debited and credited upon their request. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14,1990 and Decree No. 68 of October 30,1990, both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (EU countries), A /2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries asso- ciated with the EU), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises most of the Eastern Euro- pean countries, China, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and Viet Nam; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be imported without quantitative restrictions and those that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for sub- zones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative re- strictions remain for subzone A/3 and for some countries of Zones B and C. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all pre- vious barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricul- tural and livestock products from non-EU coun- tries. Payments for imports are not regulated, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration and Control. Domestic and foreign banknotes up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent exported across the border by residents are free of restrictions. Exports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized interme- diaries for recording and fiscal monitoring pur- poses and according to the regulations on money laundering. Exports and Export Proceeds Since the inception of the Single European Mar- ket, exports have been regulated by a ministerial decree of October 19, 1992. The decree liberalized exports to non-EU countries, with the exception of high-technology products included in the ministe- rial decrees of June 24, 1993 and of oil and gas ex- tracted from the seabed, which are subject to ministerial authorization. Receipts from exports are subject to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts from invisi- bles, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Capital Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no re- strictions are applied to their repatriation. Resi- dents and nonresidents are subject to the general regulations described in the section on Administra- tion of Control. Gold Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally re- served for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministe- rial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The ex- portation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, including coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are unre- stricted. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value-added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. The Jamaican authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the spot and forward exchange rates are determined by de- mand and supply conditions in the interbank mar- ket. On December 31,1994, the average spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$33.0239 and JS33.3619, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Foreign exchange bureaus function as points of collection, and they are required to sell to the Bank of Jamaica a pre- scribed minimum amount of foreign exchange that they have purchased. Excess foreign exchange may be sold without restrictions to the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar (trade in other currencies is optional and negotiable between participating banks). While the Bank of Jamaica is primarily responsi- ble for payments of obligations on government im- ports of goods and services and official debt, the public entities are free to conduct their own foreign exchange transactions. Since the amounts sold di- rectly to the Bank of Jamaica from the sources indi- cated above are insufficient to meet the payments it must make, the Bank of Jamaica purchases its addi- tional requirement from the foreign exchange mar- ket at the prevailing rate. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system, other authorized dealers, and foreign exchange bureaus. The commer- cial banks also handle most service payments. On November 1, 1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in consultation with the other central banks in the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), suspended clearing arrangements within the framework of CARICOM. The Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 22,1963. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act, previously adminis- tered by the Bank of Jamaica on behalf of the Minis- ter of Finance, was repealed on August 17,1992. The provision regarding prohibition of trading in foreign exchange, except by and through an authorized dealer, was incorporated in the Bank of Jamaica Act. The Minister of Finance, however, retains the author- ity to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an external account or a for- eign currency account.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. Foreign Currency Accounts Authorized dealers are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for residents and nonresidents. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. External ac- counts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external ac- counts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Autho- rized dealers are allowed to hold, for residents and nonresidents, "A" Accounts in foreign currency and "B" Accounts in Jamaica dollars, both of which are exempt from tax on interest earned on all depos- its, provided that (1) in the case of A Accounts oper- ated by nonresidents, no new accounts have been operating and no new deposits have been made in 1A11 currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been desigiiated as specified currencies. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 253 existing accounts after September 22,1991 and (2), in the case of B Accounts operated by residents as of September 22, 1991, deposits are held as certifi- cates of deposit with at least one year maturity. Before September 25, 1991, accounts that were credited mainly by proceeds of sales of properties owned by emigrants and not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and pro- ceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) were designated as blocked ac- counts. Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, no new accounts were opened af- ter September 25,1991. A timetable was established for the phasing out of existing accounts, and effec- tive April 1,1992, all remaining balances in blocked accounts became freely convertible. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is re- sponsible to the Minister of Industry and Com- merce. Since June 1991, imports of motor vehicles have not required a license, but a permit is required for government statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks with- out reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports are subject to customs tariffs in compli- ance with the Common External Tariff (CET) Ar- rangement of CARICOM. The member countries of CARICOM have agreed (in October 1992) on a phased reduction in the level and dispersion of the regional CET over the next five years. As a result, the range of import tariff rates in Jamaica was changed to 5-30 percent from 0-45 percent, effec- tive April 1,1993, to 0-30 percent effective April 1, 1994,2 and will eventually be reduced to 0-20 per- cent by the end of 1996. Some agricultural products will remain subject to a stamp duty at a rate of up to 95 percent, and these will be reduced over a three- year period to be consistent with the CET. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported without restriction. However, specific licenses are required for the ex- portation of certain agricultural products, ammuni- tion, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. All proceeds from exports may be used in trans- actions in the foreign exchange market without restriction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other authorized dealers provide foreign exchange for most service transac- tions, including business and other travel, insur- ance, commissions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange refunds, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are repatriable without restriction. All proceeds from invisibles may be used in transactions in the foreign exchange market with- out restriction. Capital As of September 25, 1991, all capital flows (both inflows and outflows) became free of restrictions, except transfers abroad of balances on blocked ac- counts of emigrants, which were allowed from April 1,1992. Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking institutions are liable to be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Ja- maica dollar assets. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain foreign commer- cial bank debts to Jamaica into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation was prohibited for three years. Capital repatriation was also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors and for seven years for investments in other quali- fied sectors.3 Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circu- late. There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, or holding of gold for numismatic or industrial purposes. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. An exchange bureau system was estab- lished. Operators of bureaus would be allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and traveler's 2Zero to 25 percent effective April 1,1995. •^The program is scheduled to be discontinued after March 31, 1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 25£ JAMAICA checks in unlimited amounts. Drafts and money or- ders may be purchased up to a maximum of US$100,000 or its equivalent in other currencies in any one transaction. Foreign exchange may be sold by bureau operators in banknotes or traveler's checks, but a minimum amount of 20 percent and a maximum of 45 percent of gross foreign currency purchases must be sold to the Bank of Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The au- thorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are de- termined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in or- der to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank rate for the U.S. dollar in the New York market on December 31,1994 was ¥111.85 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their customers, with nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange contracts may be ne- gotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major interna- tional foreign exchange markets. There are no offi- cially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1,1964. Administration of Control The exchange and trade control system is oper- ated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Minis- try of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Im- port- and export-reporting requirements are han- dled by the MITI. With effect from January 1,1992, inward direct investments have to be reported to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate min- isters after such investments take place, in accor- dance with the amendment of the law enacted in April 1991. Outward direct investments require prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Ja- pan. There are no restrictions on credits to or pay- ments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Pay- ment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to pre- vent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made freely, with the exception of specifically restricted items or items from desig- nated countries. The Import Restriction System cov- ers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the re- stricted items, once importers obtain authorization from the MITI, they receive an import quota certifi- cate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank auto- matically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or ship- ping areas, individual authorization must be ob- tained from the MITI. Imports from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya require permission from the MITI. For transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ser- bia/Montenegro, Iraq, and the Libyan Arab Jama- hiriya or by residents of these countries to foreign countries through Japan, permission from the Min- ister of Finance is required. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola re- quire permission from the MITI. All other pay- ments for invisibles from Japan to residents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), Iraq, and Libya require permission from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open ac- counts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of shipment) require authori- zation from the MITI. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 JAPAN Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) that are valued at more than ¥5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made with- out limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in con- nection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic banknotes ex- ceeding ¥5 million requires ministerial approval. In- termediating businesses involving Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and Iraq require permission from the MITI. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Ex- port Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export volume, ex- port prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1993, voluntary restraints were applied to exports of cer- tain textile items to the United States and the Euro- pean Union (EU), to exports of passenger cars to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EU. In addition, exports of some other products, in- cluding passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, and videocassette recorders to the EU, were subject to monitoring by the Government. At the end of 1993, 27 export cartels were operat- ing under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were sub- ject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exporta- tion to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settle- ments are effected under the special methods de- scribed above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign pro- cessing and reimportation require individual li- censes. Exports to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya require-permission from the MITI. Receipts from invisibles may generally be ac- cepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Intermediating busi- ness related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) or Iraq and other countries and exports of services to the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) or Iraq require permission from the MITI. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Minister of Finance or the MITI may request or order that the transaction be sus- pended or that its particulars be modified on the ba- sis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for port- folios may be made freely through designated secu- rities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely ac- quire securities for portfolio investments. However, acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrow- ings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. Under emergency conditions, how- ever, most capital transactions that are not subject to prior approval in normal conditions may be made subject to prior approval. Emergency conditions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to af- fect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma- jority equity ownership of enterprises or establish- ment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter trans- actions is made public by the Securities Dealers As- sociation) that reach 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year matu- rity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business ob- jectives of a company with one-third or more for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 257 eign ownership is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Requests or orders for sus- pension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or minis- ters concerned consider the transaction to have ad- verse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enter- prises in related lines of activities, the general per- formance of the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law governing foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign inves- tors are required to report only after undertaking investment unless national security interest is in- volved, except for four areas reserved under the Capital Movements Code of Liberalization of the OECD (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum, and leather and leather products); this exception became effective on January 1,1992. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20- day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the Minister of Fi- nance if, in the Minister's opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing; (2) domestic and financial capital markets; (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy; and (4) implementation of Japan's international agree- ments, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Fi- nance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consideration is deemed without adverse consequences. Other transactions by non- residents may generally be carried out freely. Over- seas deposits by residents, borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan, and issuance of yen-denominated bonds abroad by nonresidents may require prior approval. Other ex- ternal transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Issuance of securities or bonds by residents abroad and of foreign-currency-denomi- nated securities or bonds by residents in Japan re- quires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrow- ers of their choice and may accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents. Foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents and residents are subject to minimum reserve requirements ad- justed from time to time by the Bank of Japan. For- eign banks are licensed to operate in Japan, subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign cur- rency as well as from money markets in Japan. Financial institutions apply the following pru- dential guidelines to capital transactions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign-currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds equivalent to 20 percent of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents; (4) a ceiling on for- eign-currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceil- ing was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institutional account, and the ceiling for foreign- affiliated companies was raised to 70 percent); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign-currency-denominated bonds, excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign- currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by residents up to the equivalent of ¥100 million are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, trans- portation, and securities are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in do- mestic transactions. The importation and exporta- tion of gold bullion are free from licensing. External futures in gold may be freely traded by designated companies. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of April 30,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. Its ex- change rate is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to the basket of five currencies that constitute the SDR, with the weights determined by the currencies' relative importance to Jordan's inter- national transactions. On April 30,1995, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Jor- dan (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were JD 0.693 and JD 0.695, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in interna- tional financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the central bank for sales of ex- change for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institu- tions. Authorized banks are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for commercial transactions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. For corpo- rations or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the central bank may offer a forward ex- change facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Jordan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ments, as from February 20,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the central bank, which also issues exchange permits; the central bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for personal invisi- ble payments. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Supply, and Agriculture. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain ex- ternal payments. Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kro- nor, and Swiss francs. 258 Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Jordan's bilateral trade and payments agree- ment with the Republic of Yemen is inactive. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the central bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic and foreign currency. Withdrawals and transfers from foreign currency accounts are free of restrictions. Balances on these accounts may be with- drawn freely in convertible currency and may be used for any purpose. Interest rates are determined in line with rates prevailing in international markets. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in a foreign currency may be opened at the central bank or at any other li- censed bank or financial institution by governmen- tal and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the specialized credit institutions and domestic corpo- rations of vital national interest, including public shareholding companies, provided that outstand- ing balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling may be raised in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the depos- its that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 500,000. Balances in these accounts can be utilized for making current payments abroad consistent with regulations governing import and in- visible payments. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than six months and have decided to return may continue to keep accounts in foreign currencies without limit for up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 500,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Li- censed banks and financial companies may extend credit facilities in Jordan dinars to residents and non- residents against their foreign currency deposits. Ex- tending credit facilities to residents against their foreign currency deposits requires the prior approval of the central bank. The amounts of credit facilities extended to nonresidents against their foreign cur- rency deposits should not exceed 5 percent of total credit granted by a bank or a financial company. Fur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 259 thermore, the balance of the foreign currency deposit used as collateral against the extended credit facili- ties should not, at any time, be less than the out- standing balance of credit facilities. Imports and Import Payments The draft law lifting the ban on imports from Israel has been submitted to Parliament. Other imports, unless mentioned in Article 3 of the Import and Export System,2 require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 2,000. A fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value is charged when the import license is issued. Imports requiring a license also require an ex- change permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the im- porter holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for im- ports except those made by government depart- ments and certain approved institutions and individual permits of less than JD 300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval from the central bank, which is normally given for essen- tial imports only. Imports into Free Zones Payments for imports into free zones and for transit trade are subject to the prior approval of the central bank. In principle, however, it is the im- porter's responsibility to provide foreign currency to finance such transactions. Banks are authorized to set the percentage of advance import deposits they collect from customers against these imports at their discretion. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Residents are permitted to transfer foreign means of payment equivalent to JD 35,000 a year to meet current payments for invisibles (travel, education, medication, pilgrimage, residence abroad, family assistance, and others) without obtaining the prior approval of the central bank and without present- ing any document to justify these payments. They may transfer amounts in excess of JD 35,000 when justified by supporting documents. In comparison, transfers from nonresident accounts are free of re- striction. The authorized amount for subscriptions to newsletters, magazines, and specific bulletins is the equivalent of JD 1,000. The policy on payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscrimi- natory In practice, the central bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible payments, except those of gov- ernment departments and certain approved institu- tions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency credited from sources outside Jordan, and permits with a value of less than JD 300. Remittances may be made by postal order for imports not to exceed JD 10 a person a month to any person residing abroad. Premiums for life insurance policies issued by in- surance companies operating in the Kingdom in fa- vor of nonresidents or Jordanians working abroad must be collected in foreign currency from abroad or from nonresident accounts. In addition to any exchange allowances for travel, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 5,000 in Jordanian banknotes and coins. Nonresidents working in Jordan who do not have nonresident accounts may transfer up to JD 400 a month, up to a maximum of JD 5, 000 a year. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the central bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other for- eign means of payment that they had or that they had previously brought in and declared to the cus- toms authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds The draft law lifting the ban on exports to Israel has been submitted to Parliament. There are no re- quirements affecting export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.3 Individuals who, for exchange control purposes, are considered residents of Jordan may retain only the equivalent of JD 500,000 a person in foreign cur- rency in the Kingdom, as stipulated in the Foreign 2These include imports made on behalf of His Majesty the King, imports by government departments and certain ap- proved institutions, and goods in transit. 3Approval is not granted for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 JORDAN Exchange Control Regulations. They must sell the excess amount to licensed banks, financial compa- nies, or authorized dealers. In addition, withdrawals and transfers from non- resident accounts were permitted freely. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but outward transfers by residents require approval and are not normally permitted. However, the central bank may grant permission to banks, insurance com- panies, contractors, and industrial, agricultural, trad- ing, and tourist firms, to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. The transfer of funds for purposes of investment in Arab countries is permitted only if mutual treatment or bi- lateral agreements exist between Jordan and the country, and it is the investor's responsibility to pro- vide foreign exchange to finance such investments. Current income resulting from nonresident invest- ments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law Regulating Arab and Foreign Investments, capital, profits, and dividends from foreign invest- ments may be remitted. The Foreign Companies Registration Law No. 58 (1985) provides various benefits to foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for purposes of conducting business out- side the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Nonresidents may use convertible curren- cies to purchase Premium Development Bonds de- nominated in Jordan dinars. Proceeds from redemption at maturity, including interest, are trans- ferable in any convertible currency. Gold The central bank has issued ten gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate and are avail- able only to nonresidents and domestic numisma- tists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Imports of gold in any form are permitted without the prior approval of the central bank, while imports of gold to be used in crafts and then re- exported are subject to the prior approval of the cen- tral bank Exports of gold, other than gold that has been crafted and whose value has thus increased, re- quire the prior approval of the central bank Changes During 1994 Nonresident Accounts January 25. Licensed banks and financial compa- nies were authorized to open accounts in foreign currencies for nonresidents without any conditions. Imports and Import Payments January 25. Applications for exchange permits that include advance payments were required to be supported with either one of the following two guarantees (instead of the first one only) to en- sure the repatriation of foreign currency trans- ferred through the same bank that issued the exchange permit: (1) An external banking guaran- tee of an amount equal to the advance payment; or (2) a local guarantee of an amount equal to 20 percent of the advance payment in favor of the central bank. Payments for Invisibles January 25. Any resident is permitted to transfer foreign means of payment equivalent to JD 35,000 a year, instead of JD 20,000 a year, to meet current payments for invisibles (travel, education, medica- tion, pilgrimage, residence abroad, family assis- tance, and others) without obtaining the prior approval of the central bank and without present- ing any document to justify these payments. Trans- fers by residents in excess of the JD 35,000 for invisibles are also permitted when justified by sup- porting documents. Exports and Export Proceeds January 25. The regulation under which export proceeds were to be repatriated within a specified period was abolished. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 20. Jordan formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments January 25. Applications for exchange permits that include advance payments were required to be supported with a letter of undertaking of an amount equal to the advance payment in favor of the central bank. No banking guarantee is required for exchange permits covered either from foreign currency deposits or incoming confirmed letters of credit or from external guarantees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 261 Payments for Invisibles April 4. Nonresidents working in Jordan who do not have nonresident accounts were permitted to transfer up to JD 400 a year instead of JD 100 a month, up to a maximum of JD 5,000, instead of JD 1,200 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the Tenge.1 Exchange rates of the tenge against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies are determined at twice-weekly auctions held by the Kazakhstan Interbank Currency Exchange (KICE), which in- cludes 21 commercial banks and the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK).2 These rates are also used for all official transactions. Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. In between auctions, banks and enterprises are permitted to engage in spot and cash transac- tions at freely negotiated rates. The policy of the Government is to limit intervention in the auction only to smooth out sharp fluctuations in the ex- change rate and to let supply and demand condi- tions determine the rates at the auctions. Purchasers of foreign exchange are subject to a commission of 0.3 percent payable at the auction and a 1 percent commission payable to the authorized bank. Resi- dents planning to sell or purchase foreign currency at the auction (via authorized banks) are required to present documents establishing compliance with prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Foreign exchange purchased at the auction and not used within two months must be reauctioned. Only spot transactions are permitted at the auctions. The spread between the buying and selling rates is not allowed to exceed 10 percent. At the end of Decem- ber 1994, the average exchange rate of the tenge against the U.S. dollar was T 54.26 per US$1. Administration of Control Parliament approved a foreign exchange law in April 1993 that established the principle of convert- ibility for current international transactions. The Ministry of Economy prepares the overall quotas for delivery outside Kazakhstan on the basis of ter- ritorial and specific commodity level material bal- ances and has the power to establish export quotas for sales of export goods through auctions. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations is the au- thority that grants licenses for export or import. The Cabinet of Ministers may decide to limit the export or import of goods not subject to quotas and li- censes, depending on the economic situation. In ad- dition, the heads of local governments may set up regimes of quotas and licenses for consumer goods other than food. Prescription of Currency Kazakhstan does not maintain bilateral payments arrangements with any country outside of the former Soviet Union. Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of correspondent accounts of the NBK and commercial banks. Resi- dents of Kazakhstan may make and receive interna- tional payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in Russian rubles. In general, for- eign currency may not be used for the settlement of domestic transactions between residents.3 It is pro- hibited to use foreign exchange cash in retail trade and services on Kazak territory. Transactions be- tween residents and nonresidents involving the sale or purchase of foreign currency are limited to those conducted through authorized banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises may main- tain convertible foreign exchange accounts at au- thorized banks. These accounts, which bear inter- est, may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances in these accounts may be freely used for any purpose. Residents may also maintain convert- ible currency accounts abroad with permission from the NBK. Nonresidents may hold accounts in Kazakhstan in domestic or foreign currencies; only one account is permitted. Withdrawals from these accounts, in- cluding transfers abroad, are not restricted. lrThe tenge was issued on November 15, 1993 as the national currency and became sole legal tender in Kazakhstan as of No- vember 18,1993. 2The exchange operates in U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, Rus- sian rubles, Kyrgyz soms, Uzbek sum, and Ukrainian karbova- nets. Daily official rates for 32 other currencies are set on the basis of the tenge-dollar rates in the auction and the cross rates in international markets. 3Exemptions are permitted for payments to residents provid- ing freight, insurance, or other intermediary services in respect of foreign-currency-denominated trade; payments to residents supplying inputs required for the production of exports sold for foreign currencies; payments for selected domestic telecommu- nications services; payments to banks and other financial institu- tions in respect of liabilities incurred in foreign currencies; and where otherwise specially authorized by the NBK. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 263 Imports and Exports Trade with the Baltic countries, the Russian Fed- eration, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union under trade agreements is conducted through acquisitions and shipments by financially independent state trading organizations, Kazcon- tract (formerly the Ministry of Material Resources), and sectoral trading organizations (including Kazr- isheprom, Kazpisheprom, Kazhleboprodukt, Ka- zgazifikatsia, Leginvest, and Stroymaterialy). Trade with other countries is also effected under a system of intergovernmental trade agreements, quotas, and licenses. Overall export quotas are pre- pared by the Ministry of Economy on the basis of balances of specific products in various territories. There are no import quotas. All export and import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and the ex- portation or importation of goods not subject to quotas and licenses may be restricted by the Cabi- net of Ministers, depending on the domestic eco- nomic situation. For both exports and imports, general or specific licenses may be granted. A general license is given for the period necessary to complete the export or import operations, but in any case not for a period exceeding one year. Operations under a general li- cense may take place with more than one contract but must be of the same general nature. Specific li- censes are provided for an individual export or im- port transaction and are valid for one calendar year. The number of commodity groups subject to export licenses was reduced from 55 at the end of 1993 to 50 by late January 1994 and to 32 by the end of De- cember 1994. The number of commodity groups subject to import licenses was reduced to 11 as of the end of December 1994. By a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of March 10,1993, the export quotas for a list of items consid- ered consistent with state needs was established. The items are energy products, metals, chemicals and petrochemicals, equipment for building ma- chinery, construction materials, consumer goods, and food items. These quotas are assigned to vari- ous ministries and ultimately to individual export- ing enterprises. The list of overall export quotas for 1994 was set in a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 16,1993.4 These export quotas cover a shorter list of goods "of national importance" and are in addition to the export quotas set for interstate trade; they were assigned to various ministries by the Ministry of Economics, and these ministries have prepared quota assignments for exporting enterprises and submitted them to the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations, which in turn assigned specific quantities of products to individual trading compa- nies. Unused quotas cannot be carried over to the next year unless supporting documents indicate that they are for the export of goods produced in the previous year. Under a presidential decree of July 30,1993, cer- tain products of "importance to the state" are re- quired to be exported and re-exported exclusively through state foreign trade organizations, and the quotas for these products are compulsory for the enterprises producing these goods. All export pro- ceeds except for those of joint ventures are subject to the surrender requirement at the rate of 50 per- cent. Auction rates at the KICE are applied to the surrendered foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Purchases by residents of foreign exchange for tourist purposes are limited to $500 a person; there are no limits on withdrawals from convertible cur- rency accounts for the same purposes. Purchases of foreign exchange for business travel abroad are, in principle, subject to limits, which are based on country-specific norms for accommodation and subsistence expenses but are not officially enforced. In practice, banks are free to grant exemptions to these limits. Foreign exchange may be purchased without limit for purposes of study abroad if the appropriate documents are produced. Remittances for family maintenance purposes are subject to cer- tain limits. Payments for invisibles that residents are permit- ted to make are officially tolerated for nonresidents. Nonresident workers in Kazakhstan are free to make transfers abroad. The remittance of dividends and profits is subject to approval. Proceeds from invisibles earned by enterprises are subject to the same surrender requirement as that which is applied to merchandise exports. Pro- ceeds from invisibles earned by private individuals are not subject to surrender requirements. There are no restrictions on the amount of do- mestic currency that residents and nonresidents may bring into or take out of the country. Capital Included in the export quota list for 1994 are oil, coal, various fuels, copper, zinc, lead, bauxite, ferrous metals, tin, raw leather, cotton fiber, pure wool, sturgeon caviar, and cereals. Capital transactions between residents and non- residents require approval from the NBK. Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 KAZAKHSTAN direct investments in the defense sector are prohib- ited. Neither residents nor nonresidents are permit- ted to own land. Foreign investors are entitled to tax holidays and exemption from licensing and quota restrictions and can freely repatriate their profits. Gold All transactions in gold must be effected through the NBK, which buys gold products in the country at world market prices. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 1. The Republican Hard Currency Fund was abolished. All foreign exchange transactions would be effected through the budget, and all transactions in convertible currencies would be made through the NBK. Imports and Exports January 1. A decree imposing full compulsory surrender at a uniform rate of 50 percent came into effect; joint ventures would be exempted from the surrender requirement. Auction rates at the KICE would be applied to surrendered foreign exchange. Foreign exchange taxes on export proceeds were abolished. February 1. The number of goods subject to export quotas was reduced to 25 from 34. April 1. The number of goods subject to export and import quotas was reduced, respectively, to 7 and 11. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling. On October 18, 1993, the market and the official ex- change rates were unified. The market rate is deter- mined on the basis of underlying supply and demand conditions in the interbank market. The of- ficial exchange rate is set at the previous day's aver- age market rate. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government-guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget alloca- tion. On December 31, 1994, the exchange rate was K Sh 44.84 per US$1. The operation of foreign exchange bearer certifi- cates (FEBCs) has been phased out. Under an export foreign exchange retention scheme, exporters are allowed to retain 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds in foreign exchange ac- counts with banks in Kenya and may use the re- tained proceeds to finance business-related current expenses and debt-service payments or sell them to banks at a market-determined exchange rate. Banks, in turn, are permitted to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to any client at mar- ket-determined exchange rates for the same pur- poses, to purchase foreign exchange in the retention market for their own accounts, to offer forward ex- change contracts to exporters and importers at mar- ket-determined rates without restriction on the amount or period covered, or to sell foreign ex- change they purchase in the retention market to an- other bank. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into for- ward exchange contracts with their customers at mar- ket-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice; there are no limits on the amount or period of cover. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for exter- nal debt servicing, except for the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund, which covers the foreign exchange losses associated with exchange rate fluctuations occurring after July 1,1989, for three de- velopment finance institutions. Kenya formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from June 30,1994. The Minister for Finance has delegated the ad- ministration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks to approve certain payments for imports, payments for certain current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Im- port and foreign exchange allocation licenses were abolished in May 1993, except for a short negative list of goods prohibited for health, security, or envi- ronmental reasons. The responsibility for issuing import licenses, when required, rests with the Di- rector. The Director issues special licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, including certain agricultural products and goods whose exportation is restricted based on security and environmental reasons. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of other countries may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an external account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Re- ceipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an external account in Kenya or in any marketable for- eign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from services) are al- lowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks. Use of funds in these accounts is limited in the same manner as use of export retention accounts. Export retention accounts may be converted into for- eign currency accounts. Foreigners with work per- mits in Kenya may open foreign currency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earn- ings to these accounts; use of funds in these accounts is not restricted. Accounts in foreign currency held by residents of other countries with authorized banks in Kenya are designated foreign currency ac- counts. They may be freely credited with authorized payments by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other foreign currency accounts, with the proceeds from sales of any currency and gold by nonresidents 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 KENYA to authorized dealers, and with retained foreign ex- change earnings. Foreign currency accounts may be freely debited for payments to residents and nonresi- dents. Payment of interim dividends to nonresident shareholders may be remitted without limit, pro- vided that the application is supported by adequate documentation. Commercial banks may, without ref- erence to the Central Bank, remit pension contribu- tions to nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents relating to investments made prior to February 28, 1994, are credited to blocked accounts. Remittances from blocked accounts are permitted freely, except for those relating to investments made prior to Febru- ary 28, 1994. Remittances of funds in blocked ac- counts relating to investments made prior to February 28, 1994, may be made by commercial banks up to $10,000 a year without referral to the Central Bank; amounts exceeding this limit must be referred to the Central Bank. Nonresidents may also operate undesignated nonresident accounts alongside foreign currency accounts denominated in Kenya shillings. These ac- counts may be credited freely with proceeds of drawings from foreign currency accounts for local use. Funds in these accounts are not transferable to foreign currency accounts. Enterprises operating in export processing zones (EPZs) are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with au- thorized banks in Kenya and may use the balances on these amounts to pay business-related expenses (including imports, debt service, and dividends). They are not required to surrender foreign ex- Cuange earnings to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses are not required except for a few items that, for health, security, and environmental reasons, are in- cluded on a negative list. Customs tariffs are applied as the sole form of protection of domestic industry. There are seven cus- toms tariff nomenclatures, with rates varying from zero to 75 percent. Exporters of horticultural goods and agro-based products are exempt from import duties and value-added tax on imported inputs. Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange against the following documents: a copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, an original clean report of findings from a nominated inspection agency, and a copy of the customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as contributions toward equity capital or are on a loan basis. Advance payments for imports may be made through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. All imports with an f.o.b. value of more than K Sh 100,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price, and require a clean report of findings. Authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive the report. All goods pur- chased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to conduct insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made without restriction. Foreign workers may transfer abroad any amount of their earnings upon verification of income and payment of taxes. The exportation of domestic banknotes exceeding K Sh 100,000 requires approval from the Central Bank and must be declared to customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported without special li- censes. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricul- tural products require special licenses and may be restricted to ensure adequate supplies in the do- mestic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, pre- cious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respectively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be repatriated to Kenya in an ap- proved manner within three months of the date of exportation but need not be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles may be kept in reten- tion accounts. Travelers may freely bring in and take out foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on the exportation of currencies; however, foreign currency notes in ex- cess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared at the point of entry or departure. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to K Sh 100,000; amounts exceeding this limit require prior approval from the Central Bank. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. With the exception of expatriate employees who ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 267 have opted to remit savings from their salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a blocked account; they may then be invested in ap- proved securities, and redemption proceeds be- come transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is gen- erally not restricted, but to ensure eventual repatri- ation it is necessary to obtain from the treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign in- vestors may repatriate the value of the original eq- uity investment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Borrowing by foreign-controlled companies on the domestic market is not restricted. Outward investments: Residents may invest freely up to $500,000 without referring to the Central Bank. Investments above $500,000 should be re- ferred to the Central Bank, which will approve all bona fide transactions without undue delay. Inward investments: At end-December 1994, trans- actions were limited and controlled by the Ex- change Control Act. Residents may invest freely up to $500,000 without referring to the Central Bank. Offshore borrowing by residents is allowed with- out limit, provided that (1) interest does not exceed LIBOR plus 2 percentage points, and (2) such bor- rowing is not guaranteed by the government. Ap- plications for borrowing on other terms must be referred to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange con- trol approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (in- gots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 30. Kenya formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 21. Remittances from blocked accounts were liberalized, except those relating to invest- ments made prior to February 28,1994. Remittances of funds in blocked accounts relating to invest- ments made prior to February 28, 1994, may be made by commercial banks up to $100,000; applica- tions for remittances in excess of $100,000 must be referred to the Central Bank of Kenya. February 21. Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from ser- vices) were allowed to open foreign currency ac- counts with local banks. Use of funds in these accounts would be limited in the same manner as use of export retention accounts. Export retention accounts may be converted into foreign currency accounts. Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign currency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts; use of funds in the accounts would not be restricted. Payments for Invisibles February 21. Restrictions on remittances by for- eigners of monthly earnings were removed, subject to verification of income and payment of tax. February 21. Persons leaving Kenya were allowed to export Kenyan banknotes up to K Sh 100,000; ex- portation of amounts in excess of K Sh 100,000 would require approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds February 21. The export retention ratio was in- creased to 100 percent of export earnings for all ex- porters. The requirement to repatriate export proceeds within three months remained in effect. Capital February 21. Borrowing by foreign-controlled companies on the domestic market was fully liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 KENYA February 21. Offshore borrowing by residents was allowed without limit, provided that (1) interest does not exceed LIBOR plus 2 percentage points, and (2) such borrowing is not guaranteed by the government. Applications for borrowings on other terms must be referred to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- change. The Bank of Kiribati (the only commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Austra- lian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22,1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be under- taken with the Bank of Kiribati, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohib- 1Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Solomon Islands dol- lars, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. ited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs apply to most private imports and range up to 75 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative re- strictions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment and encourage export- promoting or import-substituting investments. All applications for foreign investment must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which ap- proves applications of total foreign capital contribu- tion up to $A 250,000. Applications with a higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, in- vestors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to six years. Repatriation of profits and capital is nor- mally unrestricted. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Since the introduction of a market average rate (MAR) system on March 2,1990, the Korean won-U.S. dol- lar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won- U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within fixed margins of ±1.5 percent against the MAR of the previous day. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies in the international market. On December 31,1994, the middle rate for the U.S. dol- lar was W 788.70. The buying and selling rates of- fered to customers are set freely by foreign exchange banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and op- tions between foreign currencies, as well as be- tween the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of for- ward contracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between foreign exchange banks and nonbank customers must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected re- ceipt or payment of the transaction. Forward trans- actions involving foreign currencies or those involving domestic currency in amounts not ex- ceeding $10 million are exempt from the "underly- ing documentation" requirement. There are no ceilings on foreign exchange deposits payable in Korean won, which are exempt from this requirement. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 1,1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Ko- rea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank of Korea has been delegated author- ity to control payments related to invisibles and cer- tain capital transactions. Foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of foreign banks in Ko- rea, are authorized to engage in commercial inter- national banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries may be made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements will be made in desig- nated foreign currencies; for transactions up to $300, the settlements of exports and imports in Korean won are permitted. There are no limits for reinsurance transactions. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to ap- proved transactions. Nonresidents are allowed to hold free won accounts. All residents are allowed to open foreign cur- rency deposit accounts. Holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of the accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. 1In addition to the currencies of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Arti- cles of Agreement, this includes the European Currency Unit (ECU) and the currencies of China and Hong Kong. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 271 Imports are divided into two categories: automatic approval items and restricted items. All commodi- ties may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are on the restricted list. As of December 1994, 150 of the 10,417 basic items on the Harmonized System were classified as restricted. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classi- fication. Import licenses are granted only to regis- tered traders, who are required to have exported and/or imported a minimum value of $500,000 in any one of the last two calendar years. The com- mercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. Safeguards against exces- sive imports are provided under the Foreign Trade Act of 1987. A seven-member Trade Commission established under this act determines whether imports have harmed domestic industries, and, if its finding is af- firmative, it recommends the form of import relief to be provided, including quotas and quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Those connected with foreign trade, along with certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and pe- riodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean compa- nies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 60 days is $3,000 (the allowance for Korean nationals working as overseas correspon- dents of mass media is $10,000). For those staying abroad for over one year, an additional $20,000 is al- lowed at the time of departure. Credit card holders are allowed to charge on an unlimited basis all ex- penses directly associated with their travel during business and official trips to foreign countries. The basic monthly allowance for individual students living abroad is $2,000; students with a family re- ceive an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each child. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children abroad for living expenses and to their relatives abroad for a wedding gift or funeral donation. In addition, residents may remit up to $10,000 a year without approval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Governor of the Bank of Korea approves any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes in excess of the equiva- lent of $10,000 may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the country, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living ex- penses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on the restricted list require indi- vidual licenses. All other products may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure. Res- ident business firms may retain up to 30 percent of the aggregate value of their imports and exports in foreign exchange abroad, with a maximum of $300 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must be either sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or depos- ited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Korean residents are permitted to hold foreign currencies freely, but, once they are converted into won, a limit applies to reconversion. Nonresi- dents must register the foreign exchange they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. The importation by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by construction compa- nies from construction activity abroad must be de- posited in foreign currency accounts, and a foreign exchange bank must approve the conversion of these funds after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is virtually automatic. Capital Overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents generally require approval. Overseas direct investments of less than $10 million by Korean residents are subject to notification; invest- ments exceeding $10 million require approval from both the Bank of Korea and the Deliberation Com- mittee for Overseas Investment. There are no re- strictions on foreign borrowing for overseas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 KOREA investment and related operations. A Korean busi- ness incorporated abroad is allowed to retain prof- its for the purpose of expanding its overseas investment business or improving its financial sta- tus. Overseas portfolio investments of institutional investors are not restricted. Also, companies whose export and import value exceeds $10 million are awarded institutional investor status. Loans by resi- dent banks to nonresidents of less than $2 million are permitted freely; loans ranging from $2 million require export notification and loans exceeding $20 million require prior notification. Loans by Korean residents to nonresidents and loans to residents of countries with which Korea does not have diplo- matic relations require prior approval from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Issuance of stocks and bonds abroad is subject only to the noti- fication requirement. The value of overseas issu- ance of stocks or equity-linked bonds is limited to 15 percent of firms' total equity. Firms are prohib- ited from issuing won-denominated bonds abroad. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants varies with family size. Additional allowances for emigrant investment abroad are subject to the ap- proval of the Governor of the Bank of Korea. For- eign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. The overbought and oversold positions of foreign exchange banks are limited to 10 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of their capital base; the portion used to hedge capital or operational funds is exempt from this limit. Regulations governing foreign investment in Ko- rea and the contracting of loans to residents by non- residents are as follows: Foreign Investment Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list. In De- cember 1994, the negative list consisted of 108 out of a total of 1,148 industries, resulting in a liberal- ization ratio of 90.6 percent. In the manufacturing sector, the negative list consisted of 10 out of 585 in- dustries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 98.3 percent. In the nonmanufacturing sector, the negative list consists of 98 out of 563 industries, re- sulting in a liberalization of 82.6 percent. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that are accom- panied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been continuously reduced, and post-invest- ment controls have also been relaxed to treat for- eign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in in- dustries on the negative list, are subject to a notifi- cation requirement. A foreign firm is permitted to engage in business within three hours of submitting this notification, unless the notification is not ac- cepted for reasons of national security, protection of the environment, or violation of antitrust or fair trade laws. The notification system has gradually been expanded since the beginning of January 1993. Foreign direct investments in equity-linked bonds are allowed, including nonguaranteed convertible bonds issued by small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs), up to an aggregate of 30 percent, and indi- vidual bonds up to 5 percent of the amount of money listed (for each company). The conversion of bonds to equity is limited to 15 percent of foreign ownership ( the total limit to foreign ownership is 2 percent). The purchase of government and public bonds, with interest rates comparable to interna- tional rates, is allowed in the primary market. Ac- quisition of land by foreign-financed companies in the manufacturing sector is subject only to a notifi- cation requirement. For companies in nonmanufac- turing sectors, approval from local authorities must be sought, and approval is normally granted within 60 days. Remittances abroad of dividends and legit- imate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor are freely permitted. The repa- triation of foreign capital is also freely permitted. Foreign ownership of firms listed on the Korean Stock Market may not exceed 12 percent of a firm's equity, and individual foreign investors may not hold more than 3 percent of a firm's equity. Direct investments abroad of up to $300,000 by residents are approved by foreign exchange banks. Direct overseas stock investments by residents up to W 100 million (W 300 million for general juridical persons) are allowed. Loans Authorization is required for all foreign borrow- ing by firms other than banks. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 million and with a maturity of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. In practice, firms are not allowed to borrow from abroad. However, firms do have access to limited foreign currency loans extended by domestic foreign ex- change banks, but this type of lending is permitted only for certain purposes, such as to import capital goods and for research and development activities. Short-term foreign currency borrowing from do- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 273 mestic banks with a maturity of less than one year is not permitted. Foreign-financed companies are, in principle, subject to the same regulations governing foreign borrowing as other enterprises. However, borrow- ing by high-technology foreign-financed manufac- turing companies is allowed up to 100 percent of the foreign-invested capital; also, maturity is lim- ited to three years or less, and limitations are im- posed on the use of funds. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. The max- imum maturity period permitted for deferred pay- ments is 150 days for imports of consumer goods and of raw materials for export production. Foreign exchange banks must report to the Minister of Finance and Economy all borrowing ex- ceeding $10 million with a maturity of over one year. Their oversold foreign exchange position may not exceed 30 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $20 million, whichever is greater. (For spot transactions only, the corresponding limit is 5 percent or $5 million, whichever is greater.) Banks may instead choose to submit to an oversold limit of 10 percent of their equity capital base. Subject to certain ceilings, branches of foreign banks may enter into foreign currency swap trans- actions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic cur- rency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any ap- proval or license. This means that certain commem- orative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products whose primary component is gold, re- quire the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domesti- cally produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement November 1. The fluctuation limit of the won against the U.S. dollar was widened from ±1 percent to ±1.5 percent around the weighted av- erage of the previous day's interbank rate for spot transactions. Capital January 15. (1) The overseas borrowing limit for high-technology foreign-financed manufacturing companies was raised to 75 percent from 50 percent of the foreign-invested capital; (2) the deferred pay- ment period on imports of raw material for exports was liberalized, from 30 days to 60 days for coun- tries in the region (for instance, Japan and Taiwan Province of China); and (3) general manufacturing industries were included in the types of foreign- financed companies that are eligible for short-term overseas borrowing. February 25. (1) Overseas stock investments of institutional investors were liberalized (these in- clude securities companies and investment trust and insurance companies); (2) companies whose total export and import value exceeds $10 million were given institutional investor status (invest- ment limit was raised to $300 million, or 30 per- cent of the total export and import value, whichever is greater); (3) the liihit on the amount of investments foreign exchange banks are autho- rized to approve was raised to $300,000; (4) the ceiling on the amount resident corporations oper- ating abroad and their overseas branches may bor- row from nonresident financial institutions located abroad was abolished; and (5) the limit on the amount of foreign exchange resident business firms may retain abroad was increased to the equivalent of 30 percent of their total import and export value, with the maximum increased to $300 million from $100 million. February 28. The list of restricted overseas foreign investment by residents was shortened to 14 cate- gories from 17. March 2. Foreign firms were allowed to engage in business operation within three hours of submitting notification (previously this time requirement was 20-30 days). April 2. Rules governing land acquisition were liberalized. June 1. (1) The deferred payment period for im- ports was further liberalized for imports of con- sumer goods, from 90 days to 60 days, and for imports of raw material for exports, to 150 days from 120 days; the upper limit on import and ex- port transactions that can be settled in Korean won was raised to $300,000 from $100,000; (2) residents were permitted to hold foreign exchange freely without limit (once converted into won, foreign exchange can be converted back to foreign curren- cies only within the limits determined by foreign exchange sales of the past three months); and (3) residents were allowed to retain foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 KOREA proceeds from exports without surrendering them to a foreign exchange bank or depositing them in foreign currency accounts in banks. July 1. Direct overseas stock investments by resi- dents up to a limit of W 100 million (W 300 million for general juridical persons) were allowed, and foreign direct investments in equity-linked bonds were allowed, including nonguaranteed convertible bonds issued by listed small and medium-size en- terprises, up to an aggregate of 30 percent and indi- vidual bonds up to 5 percent of the amount of money listed (for each company). Also, the pur- chase of government and public bonds, with inter- est rates comparable to international interest rates, was allowed in the primary market. September 12. Floating rate notes were permitted to be issued in the domestic market. December 1. (1) The ceiling on portfolio invest- ment in stocks of Korean firms by nonresidents was raised to 12 percent from 10 percent of a firm's eq- uity; and (2) the overseas borrowing limit for high- technology foreign-financed companies was raised to 100 percent from 75 percent of the foreign- invested capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the rela- tive importance of these currencies in Kuwait's trade and financial relations. The Central Bank of Kuwait sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies in- cluded in the basket. On December 31, 1994, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.30017 and KD 0.30070, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The most common arrangement in the official and the com- mercial banking sectors for handling cover against exchange rate risk is through dealings in the inter- national forward exchange markets. The forward market for Kuwaiti dinar trading, however, has been suspended since the war with Iraq. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currency of Israel are prohibited.1 General and individual im- port licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Customs and Ports Adminis- tration mantain limited control over exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey. *In addition, all imports from and all exports to Israel are pro- hibited; payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. 275 Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Ku- waiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables; li- censes, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, ma- chinery, and their spare parts require industrial li- censes, valid for one-time use. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial establish- ments with the approval of the Industrial Develop- ment Commission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific li- censes. The importation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable tele- phones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered im- porters. To be registered, the importer must be ei- ther a Kuwaiti citizen, a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emir- ates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1, 1983. In line with the GCC Ministe- rial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries that have a local value- added component of at least 40 percent were abolished. Imports of foodstuffs as well as some industrial es- tablishments' imports of machinery and equipment, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 KUWAIT spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from im- port duties. In accordance with a GCC resolution (of 1985), Kuwait has implemented a system of prefer- ential tariffs allowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff pro- tection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 percent, and 25 percent, respectively, may be applied to com- peting imports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. The maximum duty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally man- ufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. In 1985, tariffs of be- tween 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiber- glass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986, customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass prod- ucts, commercial refrigeration units, central air- conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987, the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989, tariffs were imposed on imports of air filters for automobiles (25 percent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of portable tele- phones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for gov- ernment procurement of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti- produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states, and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are accorded a 5 percent price margin over goods produced outside the GCC. On March 14, 1991, the tariff rate was reduced to zero for a transitional period of six months to en- courage imports of goods into Kuwait for postwar reconstruction. On December 29, 1991, this exemp- tion was extended through March 1992. In July 1992, import duties were reinstated at the rate of 4 percent, except for capital goods and raw materials. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Exports of arms and ammunition require li- censes but licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are at- tached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or foreign banknotes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer into Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident cap- ital in resident corporations in Kuwait; new Ku- waiti companies must be at least 51 percent owned by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in companies estab- lished in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolu- tion, to eliminate restrictions on participation in re- tail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals, effective March 1987. However, import- licensing requirements were to remain in effect for non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks on the Kuwait Stock Ex- change are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries. The listing on the Exchange of bonds denominated in Kuwaiti dinars is also subject to the approval of the Exchange Commit- tee. Dealings in stocks are restricted to Kuwaiti citi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 277 zens, but foreigners are permitted to buy and sell bonds in the Exchange. Gold Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jew- elry may not be imported or sold unless it is prop- erly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufac- tured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Som.1 The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) publishes daily the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble; this rate is calculated from the transaction rates in the Bishkek interbank foreign currency market. On De- cember 31, 1994, the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar quoted by the NBK was Som 10.65 per US$1. In addition to the NBK, the commercial banks are authorized to conduct for- eign exchange transactions. Authorized banks are allowed to quote their own buying and selling rates. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector The Kyrgyz Republic formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from March 29,1995. Administration of Control The new central bank law, approved by Parliament in December 1992, established the NBK's responsibil- ity for managing the country's gold and foreign ex- change reserves. A decree signed by the president on May 5,1993 (which became effective on May 15) es- tablished the full convertibility of the som with no re- strictions on buying, selling, or holding foreign currencies. The NBK is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks. Foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Material Resources, which issues import and export licenses when required. Licenses for for- eign investment and registration of foreign inves- tors are granted by the State Commission for Foreign Investments and Economic Aid (Goskom- invest), in coordination with the Ministry of Eco- nomics and Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments, and settlements may be made in any con- vertible currency.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are allowed to maintain foreign ex- change accounts at authorized banks and abroad. Nonresidents may hold accounts in domestic or for- eign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the operations of these accounts, including trans- fers abroad of balances held in the accounts. Imports and Exports Except for some items, which may not be im- ported for reasons of national interest, imports are permitted free of restriction. The prohibited items include armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poisons, narcotics, works of art, and antiques. Imports are subject to customs duties ranging up to 30 percent. The rates exceed- ing 10 percent are imposed on the following prod- ucts: bed linen, TV sets, and vehicles (10 percent); beer (15 percent); tobacco (20 percent); and alco- holic beverages (30 percent). In early 1994, the Kyrgyz trade system was sub- stantially liberalized. All remaining import- and ex- port-licensing requirements have been lifted, with the exception of a list of eight restricted items: weapons, explosives, nuclear materials, poisons, drugs, works of arts and antiques, precious rare earth materials, and rare animal and vegetable mat- ter used in pharmaceutical production. There is no requirement to repatriate foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are allowed to purchase any amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad or any other rea- son. The importation and exportation of Russian ruble notes and other foreign banknotes are freely allowed. There are no restrictions on remittances of divi- dends and profits by foreign investors. Profits lrrhe som was issued on May 10, 1993, and the conversion (from the Russian ruble to the som) was completed by May 15,. 1993. 2The countries with which the Kyrgyz Republic has bilateral trade agreements are the Baltic countries, China, Pakistan, Rus- sia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Turkey. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 279 earned on direct foreign investments are taxed at a rate of 30 percent (the same tax rate is applied to profits earned by domestic enterprises). Capital There are no restrictions on foreign borrowing by residents or enterprises. Legislation on foreign di- rect investment is being drawn up. Gold All gold produced in the Kyrgyz Republic is sold at market prices, either in the domestic market or abroad, but the NBK has priority in purchasing it at the market price. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 10. Exchange bureaus were allowed to participate in the interbank market. Imports and Exports February 5. Most import- and export-licensing re- quirements were abolished. May 16. Export taxes were abolished on all but nine items; export taxes were further reduced to four on February 14,1995. May 28. An import tariff at the rate of 10 percent was introduced on all imports that are not financed with external aid or not originating in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 29. The Kyrgyz Republic formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic (the central bank). On December 31,1994, the of- ficial exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank for buying and selling remained unchanged at KN 718 and KN 720, respectively, per US$1; these rates are used for all transactions be- tween the central bank and the commercial banks. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dol- lar. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bu- reaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rate re- mains less than 2 percent. Foreign exchange may be sold by the bureaus for payment for services. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The state-owned Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL) handles most authorized foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also administers exchange con- trols. The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism grants import and export authorization to state trading companies, mixed companies (joint ven- tures between domestic enterprises and foreign in- vestors), cooperatives, and other public and private enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China, Thailand, a number of countries of the former So- viet Union, and Viet Nam. 1Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. Resident Accounts. Resident individuals and juridi- cal persons may open foreign exchange accounts with an authorized commercial bank. These ac- counts may be credited with (1) proceeds from ex- ports of goods and services; (2) transfers from abroad that do not result from exports of goods and services; (3) transfers or payments from foreign currency ac- counts opened with commercial banks within the Lao PDR; and (4) foreign banknotes and coins. These accounts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for autho- rized external payments and transfers. Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts and convertible kip ac- counts. Their foreign currency accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) trans- fers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in the Lao PDR; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the ap- proval of the central bank. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an au- thorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; and (4) pay- ments and transfers abroad. Nonresidents may open convertible kip accounts, which may be credited with (1) sales of foreign cur- rencies, and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresi- dents are not permitted to deposit kip belonging to residents to their convertible kip accounts. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip, and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the pre- vailing buying rate of the commercial bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made by any registered export- import business. These consist of state trading com- panies, joint-venture trade companies, and private trade companies. These companies are categorized as enterprises producing mainly either for export, for 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 281 import substitution only, for general multi-commod- ity, for export-import, or for export promotion. Im- ports are classified into the following nine categories: food and food products; textile garments and daily supplies; office supplies, school instruments, sports equipment, and cultural instruments; machines and equipment for agriculture, animal husbandry, fish- ing, and production of handicrafts; luxury goods; materials for construction and electrical products and instruments; vehicles and spare parts; medicine, medical equipment, and chemical products for man- ufacturing; and fuel. Enterprises that are producing import substitutes are allowed to import products only from the last four categories. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism and provincial govern- ment authorities, are required only for a selected number of goods and are not linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are rice, fuel, cement, reinforced wires, motorcycles and motor vehicles, and petroleum products. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restrictions. Imports of gold and silver are subject to authorization from the central bank. Margin deposits are required against letters of credit, and the rates are freely determined by the BCEL and other commercial banks and do not in- volve any government intervention. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Any registered export or import business is per- mitted to engage in export activities. Any export licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism and provincial government au- thorities, are required only for coffee, timber, wood products, rattan, and livestock. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restric- tions; at present, restrictive quotas are applied only to timber. The public sector no longer has the mo- nopoly on the exportation of timber, which is now open to the private sector. The exportation of timber was banned from April 1991 to June 1992. All goods may now be freely exported by the private sector. Export shipment of gold and silver requires autho- rization from the central bank. Export earnings are not subject to the surrender requirement, and they may be kept in foreign ex- change deposits with a commercial bank (to pay for authorized imports of goods and services, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings ac- cruing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1988 and March 1994, inward foreign capital trans- fers, profit remittances, and the repatriation of for- eign investment capital are not restricted. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad for commercial pur- poses unless authorized by the central bank. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 5. The number of tariff bands was re- duced to 6 from 11, the maximum tariff rate was lowered to 40 percent from 100 percent, and the minimum rate was raised to 5 percent from 3 per- cent. The rates above 40 percent were retained on three categories of goods on a temporary basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31, 2994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Latvia is the Lats.1 The Bank of Latvia's policy is to ensure orderly conditions in the exchange market and limit short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate of the lats against convertible currencies. The Bank of Latvia reviews domestic and international exchange markets on a daily basis and announces buying and selling rates for the lats against a basket of currencies. The Bank of Latvia stands ready to transact with commercial banks at these rates. The exchange rates for the lats against convertible currencies other than the U.S. dollar are quoted on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the in- ternational market. A margin of 2 percent is applied in the quotations of the buying and selling rates for the above currencies. Banks and other authorized exchange dealers also trade in these currencies, and their buying and selling rates may deviate from time to time from the quoted rates. Since November 1, 1993, the Bank of Latvia also quotes daily the midpoint of the buying and selling rates of the lats against convertible currencies. These rates are used for various accounting purposes, including cus- toms duties, taxation, and other valuations; they are valid through the next day and are communicated to all commercial banks. On December 31,1994, the official exchange rate of the lats was Ls 0.548 per US$1. The use of convertible currencies for domes- tic settlements is also permitted. The Bank of Latvia also quotes weekly the ac- counting rates of the lats for the currencies of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union that participate in the sys- tem of correspondent accounts. Latvia has accepted the obligation of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as of June 10,1994. Administration of Control Government decisions adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved by Parliament prevail in Effective July 20,1992, the Latvian ruble replaced the Russian ruble as legal tender in Latvia, and in March 1993, the lats began to be issued as permanent currency at the conversion rate of Latvian ruble 200 per Ls 1. At this conversion rate, the exchange rate of the lats for the U.S. dollar was Ls 1 per US$1.5. The Latvian lats became the sole legal tender effective October 18, 1993. foreign exchange and trade matters, but the author- ity to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the Bank of Latvia. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the Bank of Latvia. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union can be made through any means, in- cluding a system of correspondent accounts. Settle- ments with countries with which the Bank of Latvia maintains agreements on mutual settlement of ac- counts are effected in accordance with the terms of these agreements.2 At the end of 1994, Latvia also maintained trade and economic cooperation agree- ments providing for most-favored-nation (MFN) status with a number of countries.3 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural persons and enterprises are al- lowed to hold foreign currencies in cash or in do- mestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Nonresident natural persons are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Imports and Exports There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports except on imports of sugar, cereals, tobacco and tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and nonferrous and ferrous metals. For national health and safety reasons, licenses are also required for py- rotechnic products, arms and ammunition, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. A new tariff law became effective on December 1, 1994. It replaced 2At the end of 1994, Latvia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakh- stan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Fed- eration, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. 3Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Canada, Cuba, the European Union, Hungary, Iceland, India, Moldova, Poland, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, the United States, and Uzbekistan. Similar agreements were signed in 1992 with the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Latvia had free trade agreements with the other Baltic countries, the European Union, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 283 most specific tariffs with ad valorem rates and es- tablished basic tariff rates of 20 percent (15 percent for countries with MFN status) for nonagricultural final goods. Excluding agricultural tariffs, in 1994, 67 percent of Latvia's imports were assessed with MFN duties of 15 percent or less. An additional 23 percent of Latvia's imports were assessed with lower duties under the free trade agreements, and only 10 percent of Latvia's imports were assessed basic rate tariffs of 20 percent or less. A high ad va- lorem tariff rate of 55 percent applies to six agricul- tural commodities. Most raw materials and spare parts are assessed an import duty of 1 percent (0.5 percent when originating in countries with which MFN relations are maintained). A number of final goods are also exempt from import tariffs, and certain goods such as fruit, nuts, coffee, and tea, were subject to reduced tariffs of 1 percent (0.5 per- cent when originating in countries with which MFN relations are maintained). Specific tariff rates are levied on seeds, animal feed, certain grains, flour, bread, sugar, certain confectionery products containing chocolate, alcohol, cigarettes, and cars. The Free Trade Agreement between Latvia and the EU covers substantially all goods traded with the EU. According to this agreement, free trade areas will be gradually established within a maximum of four years starting from January 1,1995. Upon entering the territory of Latvia, natural per- sons are entitled to deliver across the border of the Republic of Latvia without any customs payments, all kinds of goods and articles intended for pur- poses other than commerce, whose importation is not forbidden or limited by law, and whose cus- toms value does not exceed Ls 300. A total customs value of foodstuffs not exceeding Ls 15 a person is exempted from taxes. Persons over 18 are exempt from taxes on alco- holic drinks up to 1 liter or one measured unit in original packing not exceeding 3 liters, and on a maximum of either 200 cigarettes, 20 cigars, or 200 grams of tobacco. The importation of certain goods, such as fire- arms, is prohibited. There are no export quotas. Export duties are lev- ied on waste and scrap metals, certain categories of round logs, certain mineral products, works of art, antiques, and certain books. Export proceeds are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control or restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control regulations gov- erning capital transactions. Gold At present, there are no regulations governing in- ternational trade in gold. A license is required to deal in gold in the domestic market. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 10. Latvia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments December 1. A new tariff law came into effect that replaced most tariffs with ad valorem rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities may announce buying or sell- ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 30, 1994, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 1,670 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The duties and taxes on imported goods and services invoiced or ex- pressed in foreign currencies are calculated at a con- version rate of LL 800 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency (ex- cept in Israeli new sheqalim). They are prohibited from engaging in forward transactions (against the Lebanese pound) unless the transactions are related to foreign trade. Lebanon formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1993. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammu- nition, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All im- ports from Israel are prohibited. Imports prohibited year-round include citrus fruits, apples, and liquid milk; imports prohibited during a certain period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, wa- termelons, peas, peaches, apricots, potatoes, onions, cucumbers, tomatoes, garlic, Jew's mallow, okra, muskmelons, pears, almonds, grapes, green pep- pers, pomegranates, and green plums. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds re- quire a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, in- sulated electric and telephone wires, and copper ca- bles. All other commodities may be imported without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for im- ports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before issu- ing letters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit (in the same currency as that in which letters of credit are opened) in an amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import let- ters of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such amounts with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country (if imported overland). A stamp tax is levied on all imports, except gold and banknotes, at the rate of LL 3 per LL 1,000 of the value of the goods. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range up to 75 percent, with the exception of bananas to which 100 percent is ap- plied, and duties are applied on a most-favored- nation basis, except for certain imports from mem- ber countries of the EU and Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on certain textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and al- coholic beverages. The tax on motor vehicles is lev- ied at the following rates: 35 percent on the first LL 10 million and 60 percent on the remaining value. The surcharge, called the reconstruction tax, is levied at the rate of 1 percent on vehicles holding more than nine passengers and 3 percent on vehi- cles holding fewer than nine passengers. The fol- lowing rates of surcharge apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, 30 percent of the value; cham- pagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whiskey, 30 percent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 percent is levied on champagne, wine, and ver- mouths; a municipality tax and an internal tax ranging from LL 250 to LL 2,000 a liter are also im- posed on beer, champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whiskey. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 285 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat derivatives to any country and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign ex- change receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from ex- tending to nonresidents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from nonresident banks unless the transactions are for commercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are prohib- ited from receiving deposits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and finan- cial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve requirement; the re- quired reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that give rise directly to foreign cur- rency deposits, and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized (since De- cember 1993) to maintain a trading position in for- eign currency amounting to up to 5 percent (short or long) of the core capital of banks and a fixed po- sition in foreign currency (long) amounting to 65 percent of core capital in Lebanese pounds. The amounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are in- cluded in net foreign currency positions. Invest- ments in nonresident banks and other foreign institutions are exempt from the net foreign cur- rency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facil- ity, commercial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in re- spect of foreign currency deposits by nonresidents. Beginning in 1994, income from all accounts with banks have been exempt from the income tax. Also, nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses that are more than 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The impor- tation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, that indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Ma- loti), which is pegged to the South African rand at Ml p e r R l. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 3.4000 and M 3.4013, respectively, per US$1. Authorized deal- ers are permitted to conduct forward exchange op- erations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. By virtue of its membership in the CMA, Lesotho also maintains the financial rand system of South Africa. Under the financial rand system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely de- termined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain prop- erties. There are no forward cover arrangements for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an ex- change control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland became effec- tive on April 1, 1986 (and was amended in 1989). Namibia, which was an indirect party to the agree- ment by virtue of its relationship with South Africa, officially became a party following its indepen- dence in March 1990. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted and unrecorded except for statisti- cal and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies ex- change controls that are largely similar to those ap- plied by South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external currency transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of cur- rent payments up to established limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions ac- cepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. Imports originating in any country of the SACU are unrestricted; those from countries outside the SACU are usually li- censed in conformity with the import regulations of the SACU; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authorized dealers are permitted to ap- prove some types of current payments up to estab- lished limits. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA area—Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 6,000 for an adult and M 3,000 for a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries outside the CMA re- gion is M 23,000 and M 11,500, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 12,000 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 287 a person at rates not exceeding M 900 a day; the cor- responding limits for business travel to other coun- tries are M 34,000 and M 1,800, respectively. Larger allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treatment. The education allowance is M 3,500 a student a month. Payments of profes- sional fees of up to a maximum of M 10,000 are al- lowed, and M 50,000 is allowed for charges related to repairs or adjustments to goods temporarily ex- ported. Lesotho residents may also effect payment of fees owed for technical services brought into Lesotho within an overall limit of M 50,000. Lesotho residents may enter into contracts with visiting art- ists, entertainers, and sportspersons, provided the commitment does not exceed M 75,000. Guarantees by Lesotho residents up to a limit of M 25,000 in re- spect of overdraft facilities for residents of Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe for do- mestic, farming, and business purposes may also be approved. Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maximum amount of earnings on blocked assets that emi- grants are allowed to transfer through normal bank- ing channels is M 300,000 a year. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly doc- umented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may either borrow foreign currency, register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct in- vestment are provided to manufacturers approved by the Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act of 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the Central Bank. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and profits from in- vestments held in Lesotho is not restricted, pro- vided these funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emi- grant family or an individual may export one auto- mobile only, with a maximum value of M 75,000, provided that the automobile was purchased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the finan- cial rand mechanism is M 500,000 for a family and M 250,000 for an unmarried person, of which M 20,000 may be in cash; the remainder may be used to acquire residential properties and a motor vehicle. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Lib$l per US$1. There is no official intervention currency. The cur- rency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian currency.2 The of- ficial exchange rate is limited to settlement of tax obligations and data reporting, while the parallel ex- change rate (about Lib$50 per US$1) applies to most transactions, including government spending. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are ad- ministered by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Some exporters must pay withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. 1 As of December 31,1994, the IMF had not received from the Liberian authorities the information needed for a description of the exchange and trade system. 2There are two Liberian dollar notes, Liberty notes and JJ. Roberts notes. Although officially at par, the Roberts notes are traded at premium against Liberty notes. Liberty notes are pro- hibited from circulation in certain regions. U.S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circula- tion, have almost totally disappeared. Full convertibility be- tween the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transactions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commissions for their sales of offshore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are permitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market- determined exchange rates. 288 Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing require- ments are liberally enforced. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and lique- fied petroleum gas. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. The Liberian National Petroleum Company (LNPC) no longer has the exclusive right to import petro- leum products; all eligible importers that obtain an Import Declaration Form from the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry may import them. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. The nominal tariff rate on imports is about 31 per- cent on average. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are at present required for ele- phant tusks and ivory; wild animals; cement; agri- cultural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar; and certain other items, such as arms, am- munition, and explosives. Licenses are generally is- sued freely and serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent surrender of export proceeds and taxa- tion or, for agricultural products, to assure certifica- tion of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood products for expor- tation have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content was raised to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are re- quired to surrender 25 percent of export proceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commer- cial banks; this requirement is not strictly enforced. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this foreign ex- change. That portion of the foreign exchange sur- render that is not purchased by the public sector is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 289 then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises un- dertaking new investment projects may be granted a five-year 90 percent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemp- tion on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incen- tive may be renewed for two additional years in certain circumstances. Most mining, logging, and rubber enterprises, however, operate under special redundant agreements that provide for tax conces- sions for a period ranging up to 70 years. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Libya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 per SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 47 percent are al- lowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent per- mitted within those margins to LD 1.00 per SDR 1.905. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 16 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates against the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1994 was LD 0.360 per US$1. Commercial banks may not deal among them- selves in foreign currencies but only through their foreign correspondents. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign ex- change transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have re- sulted in a deviation of more than 2 percent be- tween the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to authorized banks. Policy relating to im- ports and exports is determined by the General People's Congress and executed by the Secretariat of Planning and Finance. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. A bilateral trade and payments agree- ment is maintained with Malta; outstanding bal- ances are settled in convertible currencies. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents (as defined by the Central Bank) who are gainfully employed in the country are per- mitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain nonresident accounts in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Such nonresi- dents may credit their legitimate earnings to their nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors un- dertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked ac- counts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remit- tances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qual- ify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent res- idence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; bal- ances credited before March 31,1966 have been re- leased. With authorization of the Central Bank, individual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to trans- fer balances abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports un- dertaken by state-owned enterprises do not require licenses if they are authorized within the annual commodity budget. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through in- 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 291 termediaries. However, imports not included in the annual commodity budget are subject to licensing. Resident firms undertaking development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual commodity budget and not available lo- cally, and foreign exchange to pay for these imports is provided by the Government; similar imports by nonresidents, however, must be financed with for- eign exchange resources from abroad. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, in- cluding import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of January 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the ex- ception of strategic goods 3 retained by public cor- porations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provi- sions of the annual commodity budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits re- quire central bank approval. Exchange permits re- quired for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following central bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning and Finance and, if imports are to be fi- nanced under letters of credit, that a marine insur- ance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit without an advance import deposit equal to at least 20 percent of the value of the import. Im- porters must present to the bank granting the ex- change permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and cus- toms surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 percent of the applicable customs duty. All products origi- nating in Arab countries are exempted from cus- toms duties, provided that their domestic value added is at least 40 percent. Private individuals are allowed to import goods on the commodity budget 2These include mineral water, fruit juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and furs. ^hese are nine essential food items, medicine, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. list up to a maximum value of LD 3,000 per year from Arab countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Nonresidents employed by the state, by state- owned enterprises, and by foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of their net sal- aries if their contracts specify that, in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations, the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical insti- tutions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, in- cluding tourist travel, may take out foreign ex- change in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children be- tween the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be ob- tained from any authorized bank in Libya. Addi- tional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to customs. Travelers leaving Libya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority dele- gated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. Export pro- ceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmon- etary gold (other than for processing abroad), scrap metals, eggs, chicken, fish, olive oil, paint, tires, steel, and tractors are prohibited; exports or re- exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, bar- ley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohib- ited. Exports of domestically produced vegetable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 SOCIALIST PEOPLED LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA oils are permitted. All exports to Israel are prohib- ited. The Export Promotion Council established un- der Decision No. 523 of September 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing in- formation on demand conditions abroad and on po- tential exports. Also, as an incentive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export pro- duction. Exporters do not need an export license for these exports but must register with the council and supply, on a regular basis, the relevant documenta- tion on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an ex- change office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un- limited amounts, which they must declare to cus- toms. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31,1968, foreign capital in- vested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nation- als. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred (as described in the sec- tion on Payments for Invisibles, above). Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and co- operation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and for- eign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Only Libyans may own real estate in Libya. Non- resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Resi- dents must obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Affairs and Interna- tional Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The invest- ment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement November 1. The margin within which the ex- change rate is allowed to fluctuate against the SDR was widened to 47 percent from 25 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Allowances for transfers by nonresi- dents employed by the state, state-owned enter- prises, and foreign companies were reduced to 75 percent from 90 percent of net salaries for those with contracts specifying free provision of lodging and board, and to 50 percent from 60 percent for all others. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. A ban on certain exports was imposed, in- cluding eggs, chicken, fish, olive oil, paint, tires, steel, and tractors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lithuania is the Litas (plural: Litai). The external value of the litas has been pegged to the U.S. dollar at Lit 4 per US$1 since April 1,1994 when the currency board arrangement was established. Authorized banks quote exchange rates for other convertible currencies on the basis of their cross-rate relationships for the currencies con- cerned on international markets. Authorized banks also quote buying and selling rates for the Russian ruble at varying rates. The Bank of Lithuania also calculates an accounting rate, which is used to value balance sheet items. Accounting rates for con- vertible currencies and for the currencies of the Bal- tic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are calculated daily.1 There are no limits on the net open positions of authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Lithuania formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 3,1994. Administration of Control Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a bank- ing law delegating to the Bank of Lithuania the au- thority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be ef- fected through authorized banks licensed by the Bank of Lithuania. To date, 20 banks have been au- thorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithua- nia, and they are divided into four categories, de- pending on the types of transactions they are permitted to conduct. The simplest type of license limits the operations to buying and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). At present, ^The accounting rates for the convertible currencies are identi- cal to the middle rates on Tuesdays and at the end of each month, whereas the accounting rates for the currencies of the Baltic states, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are calculated by the Bank of Lithuania using the cross rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the respective central banks. eight banks have been granted a general license that allows them to offer a full range of banking ser- vices (including issuing letters of credit) in foreign exchange operations, and they are permitted to open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments, and settlements may be made in any con- vertible currency.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks, and these accounts may be credited and debited with- out restriction. Nonresident individuals and repre- sentative offices of foreign enterprises and diplomatic missions may open foreign exchange ac- counts at the authorized banks, and these accounts may be credited and debited without restriction. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and na- tional security reasons. Imports subject to bilateral trade agreements are allocated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. For most imports, a 10 percent tariff rate applies. Higher tariff rates are levied only on specific products (such as live animals, agricul- tural products, alcohol and tobacco, and a few man- ufacturing goods), some exceeding 30 percent. A tax at the uniform rate of 0.01 percent is im- posed on imports (and exports) for the sole purpose of collecting statistical information on trade. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made without restriction. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Ruble- denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the cen- tral banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union have been closed and are in the pro- cess of being settled. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 LITHUANIA Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not required to be re- patriated to Lithuania. Exports are not subject to li- censing requirements. Export duties are levied on certain raw materials and selected products. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to any control or restriction. Capital Authorized banks may borrow abroad or extend loans in foreign currencies to residents and nonresi- dents without restriction. Resident firms may bor- row foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad with the ap- proval of the Bank of Lithuania. Foreign direct investment is regulated by the Law of Foreign Investments promulgated in December 1990 and amended in February and June 1992. The law permits the state to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the com- pany must remain involved in the same type of business for at least one year under the new owner- ship. While firms with 100 percent foreign capital ownership are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the Government reserves the right to establish limits on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. For- eign investors are prohibited from operating in the defense industry, public utilities, and energy explo- ration. In joint ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is re- quired to hold the majority of the shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or to- bacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insurance companies, even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. The ownership of land by nonresidents in Lithua- nia is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits to 2 hectares of land in Vilnius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permitted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. The Law of Foreign Investments also guarantees the free repatriation of all after-tax profits as well as the invested capital, with no limitation on timing or amount. It also provides for important tax incen- tives. If the foreign investment was made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70 percent, that is, to 8.7 percent from 29 percent for five years. For another three years, the profit tax is reduced by 50 percent. If the investment is made between Janu- ary 1994 and December 1995, profits will be taxed at a rate reduced by 50 percent for six years. For joint ventures, these reductions are proportional to the foreign capital invested. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, or sell gold in any form in Lithuania. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. A currency board was established, and the external value of the litas was set at Lit 4 per US$1. May 3. Lithuania accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement. Administration of Control April 1. The Baltic Free Trade Agreement came into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Denar, the external value of which is determined freely in the exchange market. Buy- ing and selling rates for transactions between au- thorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the National Bank of Macedonia, which calcu- lates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the National Bank publishes rates for 22 currencies. On Decem- ber 31,1994, the midpoint exchange rate for the U.S. dollar published by the National Bank was Mden 40.5962 per US$1. The National Bank deals at the published midpoint rates ± a margin of 0.3 per- cent. At the end of each week, the average of the daily published rates is established for customs val- uation purposes for the following week. There is no tax on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange, and banks are free to set commissions for their services. Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade trans- actions are permitted. The exchange market operates at two levels— wholesale and retail. The wholesale level includes enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank, all of which may buy and sell foreign ex- change in this market. The Government also partic- ipates in this market through the National Bank. The retail level of the foreign exchange market con- sists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, or natural per- sons. Foreign exchange bureaus may hold over- night foreign exchange positions equivalent to 100 percent of the preceding day's foreign exchange purchases. Natural persons may purchase foreign currency from these bureaus without limit, subject to availability. Administration of Control The Parliament has the authority to legislate laws governing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made through government regulations. According to the Foreign Exchange Act and the National Bank Act, the National Bank is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and ^he former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the IMF on December 14,1992. other financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad, as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate internationally. Certain foreign exchange control ac- tivities have been delegated to the participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Ministry of Foreign Relations administers the Foreign Trade Act and the Foreign Investments Act. Medium- and long-term loans must be registered with the National Bank as stipulated by the Foreign Credit Relations Act. This obligation does not apply to short-term loans, which are permitted without restriction, except those related to imports, with a maturity exceeding 6 months. Short-term loans re- lated to commercial banks' credit lines with a matu- rity exceeding 90 days should also be registered. Prescription of Currency Residents of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange ac- counts with authorized banks in the former Yugo- slav Republic of Macedonia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion into denars. Resident natural persons may open foreign ex- change accounts in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Foreign exchange balances predating September 1, 1990 have de facto been frozen, but these deposits may be used to purchase commu- nity-owned apartments, community-owned busi- ness premises, or shares in enterprises as part of the privatization process. In special cases (weddings, funerals, payments of health care costs), depositors are allowed to make withdrawals from their frozen deposits up to the equivalent of 1,000 deutsch mark. Withdrawals in foreign currency may used to make payments abroad on presentation of appro- priate documentation for medical treatment (in- cluding purchases of medicine), education, and airfares (airfares have been temporarily restricted for budgetary reasons). Resident natural persons may not maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad or hold other financial assets abroad. In spe- 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA cific cases (such as enterprises with foreign opera- tions), enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the approval of the National Bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for authorized imports are not re- stricted. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yu- goslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 757, 787, and 820. In addition, transit trade through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is banned under UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 787 and 820. Since January 1,1994, a new trade regime has been in effect. Under the new re- gime, goods in almost 98 percent of import catego- ries are importable without quota restrictions. Goods in approximately 2 percent of import cate- gories are subject to quota restrictions that are de- signed to protect domestic production; these products include certain chemical and steel prod- ucts; buses; and, for three months of the year, cer- tain seasonal food products. Customs duties are levied on imported goods; the rates of customs du- ties range from zero to 17 percent, with imports of crude oil and essential items subject to duty at a low rate (1 percent on crude oil), 5 percent on raw materials and equipment, 10 percent on oil deriva- tives, and about 12-15 percent on consumer prod- ucts. Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicine, are subject to licensing requirements for security or public health reasons. In 1994, the effective average rate of duty was about 9.5 percent. Since September 30, 1994, importers have been allowed to purchase foreign exchange to pay letters of credit on imports 180 days in advance to the maturity date. Payments for Invisibles Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange freely to make payments for invisibles on presentation of documentation showing the nature of the services bought abroad or transfers made, such as invoices and health declarations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are prohibited under UN Security Council Resolu- tions Nos. 713, 757, 787, and 820. In addition, tran- sit trade through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is prohibited under UN Security Coun- cil Resolutions Nos. 787 and 820. Under the trade regime in force since January 1,1994, the exporta- tion of certain products (sugar, flour, wheat, and soya) remains temporarily restricted to protect do- mestic supply. The exportation of a small number of items is banned for security, public health, or cultural reasons (for example, arms, drugs, historic artifacts). Exporters must sell their proceeds to importers within 4 business days, or use the proceeds for pay- ments abroad, or deposit them in banks for a period of up to 90 days, after which they must sell their proceeds in the foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to merchandise exports. Capital Resident natural persons are not allowed to en- gage in borrowing or lending operations with non- residents. Contracting of commercial credits by juridical persons is free of restrictions. Outward di- rect investment requires approval from and regis- tration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Banks may take foreign exchange positions subject to indi- vidual limits. Foreign direct investment in the former Yugo- slav Republic of Macedonia is allowed except in a few sectors (such as arms production). Nonresi- dents are allowed to invest in existing firms, estab- lish their own firms, or establish joint ventures. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equip- ment not produced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the for- eign share in the investment is at least 20 percent. Foreign investors are exempt from the company income tax during the first three years of opera- tion. All foreign investment registered with the Ministry of Foreign Relations is protected from na- tionalization. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of profits and dividends, provided that all financial obligations within the country have been met. There are no regulations governing inward portfolio investment. Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and juridical per- sons is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 297 Gold The importation and exportation of gold require approval of the National Bank. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occured in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy franc (FMG), the external value of which is deter- mined freely in the official interbank market. The French franc is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other countries are determined on the basis of cross-rate relation- ships of the currencies concerned in the Paris ex- change market. Exporters' surrender requirement has been transferred from the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) to the market; thus, the CBM is a normal dealer, participating in the market on the same basis as the five commercial banks. The five banks are permitted to maintain an exchange posi- tion up to the limits set up by the prudential regula- tion (40 percent of their respective capital base). There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. On December 31, 1994, the midpoint rate for the French franc quoted on the market was FMG 720.00 per F 1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the General Direc- torate of the Treasury, which also supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad by residents; the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Mada- gascar; all outward investments; and inward direct investment. Some approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermedi- aries, and all exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. All economic agents are allowed to import. Private operators and state trading compa- nies are authorized to export all products to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers, with the exception of vanilla, for which a minimum export price of $60 a kilogram is admin- istratively set. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts may be effected through authorized intermediaries in any currency. A bilat- eral payments agreement with Mauritius has been inoperative for some time. Accounts in Foreign Currency. Since May 1994, resi- dents and nonresidents have been freely permitted to open accounts in foreign currency with local commercial banks. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, foreign banknotes, or traveler's and bank checks may be deposited in such accounts without justification. These accounts may be freely debited either for con- version into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the limits stipu- lated under the applicable foreign exchange control regulation. Nonresidents are also authorized to open nonres- ident accounts in Malagasy francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a foreign account, they must be credited to a special blocked account, the balance of which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires prior ap- proval from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and resi- dents are conducted through the enterprises' for- eign accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange ac- counts with local banks. Imports and Import Payments Under the Liberalized Imports System (SILI), all economic agents listed in the trade register who are in good standing legally and with the tax adminis- tration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the prevailing ex- change rate. A short list of imports is subject to ad- ministrative control, primarily for reasons of security and health. Import licenses are not re- quired for imports financed with foreign exchange already owned by the importers and deposited in their foreign currency accounts, and all administra- tive formalities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions are effected. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 299 No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; import- ers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to finance im- ports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abol- ished on May 10,1988, and each commercial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision on the basis of its financial evaluation of importers. Most imports require a documentary credit, under which a local bank will agree to open a credit line for an importer on condition that the export is confirmed by the exporter's correspond- ing bank. Local banks attach varying conditions to granting loans to their customers, with some banks requiring a deposit in foreign currency equivalent to 100 percent of the import cost (depot en devises). Importers are allowed to buy the necessary foreign exchange for their imports up to 120 days before settlement, although such amounts may be used only for the imports stipulated in the documentary credit. In accordance with the provisions of Decree No. 92.424 (April 3, 1992) on the Regulations of Merchandise Imports and Exports, all import prohi- bitions have been lifted, except for a few that re- main restricted for health and security reasons. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a simplified system of 16 rates (multiples of 5), with the minimum rate set at 5 percent and the maxi- mum at 70 percent. A temporary surcharge of 30 percent was levied on certain products to facili- tate the transition. All imports except those for which exemptions were granted in accordance with international treaties were made subject to a mini- mum rate of 5 percent on a collection basis. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1,1989, the tariffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level; and the minimum tariff rate was raised to 10 percent, except on certain products (fertilizers, pesticides, pharmaceutical products and inputs, and optical glass). In addition, the Govern- ment reduced certain tariffs and the temporary sur- charge, which was lowered from 30 percent to 10 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. On January 1, 1990, the 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the maxi- mum tariff rate of 70 percent was applied to prod- ucts previously subject to the surcharge. In 1991, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 60 percent for all categories of merchandise. The Finance Law of 1991 lowered the maximum tariff rate further to 50 percent for a large number of products. The third stage of the reform, completed in 1992, concerned mainly the classification of imported goods into five categories, which are taxed at rates of 10 per- cent to 50 percent. The Financial Law of 1994 (II) further lowered the maximum tariff rate to 30 per- cent. Since the introduction of a floating exchange arrangement, there has been no difference between the exchange rate applied to finance and to tax im- ports and exports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, which has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Payments for invisibles related to au- thorized imports are not restricted, except for agency fees (commissions de representations), whose settlement is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister of Finance (Treasury General Directorate). Residents traveling as tourists may purchase for- eign exchange up to an annual limit equivalent to F 6,000 a person a trip, irrespective of the number of trips taken (F 3,000 for children under 15 years). The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is the equivalent of F 25,000 a person, irrespective of the number of trips made. Applications for addi- tional foreign exchange must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and may be approved for bona fide business trips and medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the General Directorate of the Treasury. Limits are set for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. The transfer of divi- dends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are natural or juridical persons has been fully liber- alized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Foreigners working in Madagascar may transfer savings from wages and salaries upon presentation of the work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of net sal- ary for bachelors and persons whose families reside in Madagascar; up to 60 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar; and 100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar. Remittances for medical treatment abroad are permitted when properly documented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 MADAGASCAR Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 25,000 in Mala- gasy banknotes. There is no longer a requirement to fill a declaration of foreign means of payment upon entry into Madagascar, unless the amount brought in is more than F 50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters listed in the trade register who are in good standing and have no outstanding tax obliga- tions may freely export their products (except va- nilla) without restriction at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Furthermore, the Government's quality control or certification re- quirement for exportable goods has been abolished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Certificates of quality on exports of cloves have also been abol- ished. Mining products are covered by a special ar- rangement under the mining law. Quality control itself is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection cer- tificate from the relevant government agency or, at the option of the exporter, from an internationally recognized specialized private company. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For sea- food and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for em- barkation in the absence of an arrangement directly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in confor- mity with international agreements. Since the 1990/91 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to negotiate and execute ex- port contracts freely. The list of exports prohibited or subject to prior approval, including mineral products, flora, and fauna, was reduced by Decree No. 92.424 (April 3, 1992). Vanilla continues to be the only export subject to taxation. Effective Sep- tember 1, 1994, a single export tax was introduced at the rate of 35 percent. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemption is granted by the Ministry of Finance. Exporters are required to sell the proceeds from their exports on the interbank market; however, they are allowed to deposit in their foreign exchange account 20 per- cent of the proceeds if the repatriation occurs within the first 30 days, 15 percent if the repatria- tion occurs within 60 days, and 10 percent if the re- patriation occurs within between 60 days and 90 days of the shipment. In addition, most exports over FMG 1 million are subject to a domiciliation requirement, under which the exporter must present to a certified intermediary (a local bank) a valid commercial contract and a written commit- ment to repatriate the foreign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds of enterprises operating in the free trade zone must be repatriated within 190 days of the date of shipment. Some large enterprises are granted exceptions from the surrender require- ments on a case-by-case basis and are permitted to retain all their earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds ac- cruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency as means of pay- ment and up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and non- residents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar, in- cluding those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of for- eign companies in Madagascar, as well as corre- sponding transfers, require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign direct investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign companies directly or indi- rectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be re- ported to the minister within 20 days of each trans- action. Participation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company is not considered direct investment. Proceeds from the liquidation of for- eign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Finance. Exempt ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 301 from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridi- cal persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, al- though loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are ex- empt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permit- ted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with the Investment Code of December 29, 1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises benefiting from preferential treatment under the code are exempted from import taxes exceeding 10 percent on materials used in the production pro- cess. Enterprises operating in the industrial free trade zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of duty and tax. Gold Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold within the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce after re- view by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the CBM, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold arti- cles a person and 50 grains or 250 carats of numis- matic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to cus- toms declaration. Holders of a valid gold-mining ti- tle or a gold-washing permit or rights are free to sell the gold recovered to any approved collector. How- ever, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold pro- duced in the country. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 9. The interbank exchange market began to operate. May 5. The requirement to surrender foreign ex- change proceeds to the CBM was abolished. Resident and Nonresident Accounts May 5. Both residents and nonresidents were freely permitted to open foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments March 1. The maximum tariff on imports was re- duced to 30 percent from 50 percent. May 5. Most of the import prohibitions intro- duced earlier in the year were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Vanilla exports were subject to a sin- gle tax rate of 35 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 32,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, the external rate of which is determined on the ba- sis of supply and demand conditions in the ex- change market. Authorized dealer banks may buy and sell foreign currencies at freely determined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates ne- gotiated with their clients, and foreign exchange brokers are authorized to match orders from buyers and sellers of foreign exchange on an agency basis.1 The Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) operates a trad- ing desk for buying and selling foreign exchange in the market. At the end of December 1994, the RDM's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 15.2221 and MK 15.3751, respectively, per US$1. The exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, and the Zimbabwe dollar are deter- mined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dol- lar for the currencies concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the of- ficial or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM un- der the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry (MCI), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks, foreign exchange bureaus, and brokers are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident ac- count maintained by the recipient or in any con- vertible foreign currency2 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident ac- count or in any convertible foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident ac- counts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Blocked accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized dealer banks (ADBs) by nonresi- dents. Debits and credits to such accounts do not require the prior authorization of the exchange con- trol authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the balances of blocked accounts to be invested in an approved manner. On application to the ADBs, account holders may normally transfer the interest on blocked account balances to their country of residence. Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad, including exporters, may maintain foreign currency accounts with ADBs for a period of 30 to 90 days, and balances in the accounts may be used to make authorized payments or transfers without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general li- cense system. However, for a number of items,3 specific import licenses are required from the MCI. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application and are normally valid for six months. foreign exchange brokering has been temporarily suspended since the end of November 1994. 2Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 3Certain agricultural and food products, new (military-type) and used clothing, gold, fertilizers, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, wild animals, live fish, and copyright articles. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 303 Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, without referring to the RBM, for payment of all applications to import goods and services. When imports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must submit applications for foreign exchange. Such applications must be ac- companied by relevant importation and customs documents. Depending on means of payment (for example, letters of credit), commercial banks may require counterpart deposits. This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations. Prepayment for imports is not allowed. Import- ers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 percent. The only exception is textiles for which the tariff rate is 70 percent.4 Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value, in- cluding customs tariffs. The surtax rates range from zero to 20 percent for most imported items. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, without reference to the exchange control authorities, for all current invisible pay- ments, but certain invisible payments, such as pri- vate travel, business travel, and medical treatment, are subject to limits. The basic exchange allowances for each trip abroad are $3,000 for private travel (holiday); $5,000 for business travel; and $4,000 for medical purposes. Foreign exchange in excess of the limits in the case of medical treatment will be granted upon verification of expenses. There is no limit on the frequency of trips that may be taken. Travelers may take out, in addition to their basic travel allowance, up to MK 200. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on con- tracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit, subject to ADBs' approval, up to two-thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence or any country of their choice. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain products6 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic sup- plies. Export proceeds can be held in foreign currency accounts. Holders of foreign currency ac- counts are free to sell foreign exchange within 30 days. After 30 days, 90 percent of the foreign ex- change has to be converted into kwacha at the RBM rate. However, the holders can keep the funds for 90 days if funds are required to make approved for- eign payments. Specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.7 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tariffs paid on im- ports of certain inputs used for manufactured ex- ports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full and held in foreign-currency-denominated ac- counts with ADBs. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that travelers may import, but they may not bring in more than MK 200 in Malawi currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of nondebt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control ap- proval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain the ADBs' approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign securi- ties without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capi- tal abroad, and, with certain exceptions, they are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to ADBs for approval. Upon departure, 4The effective maximum tariff for most tariff lines is 40 per- cent, as almost all trading partners qualify for preferential tariffs under various international conventions. ^The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufactured goods. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 7The cess is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally and on hides and skins at the rate of 2 percent of ex- port value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MALAWI emigrants are allowed to exchange the equivalent of up to the amount approved. The balance, if any, of emigrants' funds is blocked, but on the first anniver- sary of their departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emigration allowance may be transferred to the new country of residence. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce and Industry in consul- tation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 7. A new exchange arrangement based on an interbank market was introduced. The ex- change rate would be determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Authorized dealer banks would be permit- ted to buy and sell foreign currency at freely deter- mined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus would be authorized to conduct spot trans- actions with the general public on the basis of ex- change rates negotiated with their clients, and foreign exchange brokers would be authorized to match orders from buyers and sellers of foreign ex- change on an agency basis. The RBM would hold a monthly fixing session at which offers to buy and sell foreign exchange from authorized participants would be matched to arrive at a clearing exchange rate. Authorized participants at the fixing would be authorized dealer banks, foreign exchange brokers, foreign exchange bureaus (selling only), the RBM, companies registered under the Companies Act, and licensed enterprises meeting operational re- quirements of the fixing sessions. November 1. Exposure limits on foreign exchange holdings by the authorized dealers were introduced. November 30. Foreign exchange brokers' licenses were suspended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 7. Residents earning foreign exchange on a regular basis were allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized banks and use the balances for authorized payments and transfers. October 20. Authorized dealer banks were required to convert 90 percent of foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 7. The negative list for imports was abolished. Payments for Invisibles February 7. The limits on travel allowance were increased, and the limit on the number of trips per- mitted was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds February 7. The surrender requirement was abol- ished, except for the proceeds from exports of tea, tobacco, and sugar; 10 percent of the proceeds from these commodities would be required to be sold to the RBM. November 1. Holders of foreign currency accounts were free to sell their foreign exchange balances in the market within 30 days. After 30 days, the hold- ers have to convert 90 percent of the funds to Malawi kwacha at prevailing RBM rates. If the holders can present evidence of an approved and confirmed import order the funds can be held for 90 days. November 1. The 10 percent surrender require- ment for the proceeds from exports of tea, tobacco, and sugar was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. Its exter- nal value is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes only to main- tain orderly market conditions and to avoid exces- sive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit. The external value of the currency is monitored against a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malay- sia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The commercial banks are free to deter- mine and quote exchange rates, whether spot or forward, to all customers for all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yu- goslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). On December 31, 1994, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was RM 2.5578 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transactions. For- ward cover for the commercial banks is usually pro- vided for up to six months at market rates for both purchases and sales. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11,1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. There are no re- strictions on payments or transfers for current inter- national transactions. Residents are required only to complete a statistical form for any payment, irre- spective of its purpose, that exceeds RM 50,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Fi- nance. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is ad- ministered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veteri- nary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Malaysia notified the Fund on June 23, 1993 that in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro) may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Spe- cial rules apply to settlements with these two countries. Nonresident Accounts Ringgit accounts of nonresidents of Malaysia are designated external accounts. There are no restric- tions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceed- ing RM 50,000 if such payments are made by resi- dents. Proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be transferred to any other resi- dent or nonresident account or converted into any currency, except those of Israel and the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Ac- counts of residents of these two countries are designated as Israeli accounts and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) accounts, re- spectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls for the various parts of Malaysia have been fully standardized. Import licenses are required for certain goods as specified in Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order No. 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; vari- ous conditions must be satisfied before import li- censes for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local in- dustries temporarily when required. Imports from Israel are prohibited. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 MALAYSIA Imports of motor vehicles are subject to a quota and require an import license that details the quan- titative restrictions. The movement of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary De- partment. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any por- tion of an animal from all countries require an im- port license. Imports of primates require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permit- ted imports are freely allowed. Raw materials and machinery for the manufacturing sector'are eligible for preferential duty treatment as follows: (1) for the production of goods for the domestic market, raw materials that are not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs duty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic mar- ket may be further exempted from this duty if they comply with specific requirements regarding eq- uity participation, management, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of taxable goods may be acquired free of duty, sub- ject to conditions as specified in the Sales Tax Act of 1972; (4) for companies that manufacture prod- ucts for the export market, full exemption from customs duty is granted when local raw materials are not available or are not competitive in price or quality; (5) all customs duties and sales taxes on imported machinery and equipment that are un- available locally and are directly used in the manu- facturing process can be considered for exemption; and (6) manufacturers may claim customs duties and sales tax drawbacks on imported raw materi- als or components that are incorporated into fin- ished products and exported within 12 months of the date of import. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro) may be made without restriction. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign ex- change available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of RM 50,000. There is no re- striction on the exportation of currency notes in the immediate possession of a traveler. The exportation of Ringgit currency by any other means requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yu- goslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Ex- ports of logs from Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah are restricted. The customs areas and export control systems among the three territories of Malaysia are stan- dardized. Exchange control forms must be com- pleted for exports valued at more than RM 100,000 f.o.b. a shipment. Proceeds from exports must be re- ceived and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than six months after the date of exporta- tion. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange and reimported into Malaysia. Exporters are al- lowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Malaysia up to RM 5 million.1 Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate is- sued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Li- censing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Cus- toms (Prohibition of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The primary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate the timeliness of exchange receipts from invisibles. No limitation is imposed on the importation of cur- rency notes by a traveler. The importation of do- mestic banknotes by other than authorized banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Capital The following inward investments, covered by the guidelines issued on February 20,1974 (regard- ing the acquisition of assets, mergers, and take- overs), require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) proposed acquisi- tion of any substantial fixed assets by foreign inter- aSeven banks—designated as "first-tier banks"—are permitted to offer foreign currency accounts. All other domestic banks must continue to obtain permission from the Controller of For- eign Exchange before offering currency accounts to residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 307 ests; (2) proposed acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and busi- nesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, man- agement agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any com- pany or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceed- ing RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Ma- laysian company that involve any foreign entity re- quire the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (1) the total of the foreign entity's new investment exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new investment exceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any for- eign entity increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new investment by several foreign entities in- creases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities in- creases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company to more than RM 5 million on incorporation, the holding of foreign entities constitutes more than 15 percent of the voting power, or the joint holding of several for- eign entities constitutes 30 percent or more of the voting power of the company concerned. Foreign investors are permitted to hold equity of up to 100 percent if they export 80 percent or more of their production. For projects exporting between 51 percent and 79 percent of their production, for- eign equity ownership of up to 79 percent is permit- ted, depending on such factors as the level of technology, spin-off effects, size of the invest- ment, location, value added, and the use of local raw materials and components. For projects export- ing between 20 percent and 50 percent of their production, foreign equity ownership of between 30 percent and 51 percent is allowed. For projects exporting less than 20 percent of their production, foreign equity is allowed up to a maximum of 30 percent. For the purpose of equity determina- tion, export sales are defined as excluding sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses so as to promote greater links between multina- tional corporations and domestic industries. Notwithstanding the above, for projects pro- ducing high-technology products or priority prod- ucts for the domestic market, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent may be allowed. These equity guidelines do not apply to new pro- jects in certain sectors where foreign equity owner- ship of up to 60 percent is allowed for domestic sales (including sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses) for the following sec- tors: press-working and stamping industry, plastic components for the electrical and electronic industry, plastic compounds and masterbatch, electroplating, heat treatment activities, fabrication of furniture components such as nylon chair bases and arms, foundry products, connectors, transformers and coils, hot stamping, spray painting and silk screen printing services, and polished granite and marble slabs and tiles. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permitted. To determine the percentage for these projects, various criteria (e.g., level of investment, technology, and activities involved; availability of Malaysian exper- tise in the area of exploration, mining, and process- ing of the minerals concerned; degree of integration; and level of value added involved) are taken into consideration. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date the operation begins, after which such ownership must be re- duced to 51 percent. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Is- rael and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro), provided that the resident concerned has not obtained any domestic credit and that payments are made in foreign currency. If investors have any domestic credit, they must ob- tain prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange for their investment abroad. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permitted to have a short or a long open foreign exchange position, ranging from RM 10 million to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 MALAYSIA RM 150 million, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of a statistical form for amounts above RM 50,000. Non- resident-controlled companies in Malaysia are per- mitted to borrow up to RM 10 million, including immovable property loans, without exchange con- trol approval, provided that at least 60 percent of total credit facilities from banking institutions in Malaysia are from Malaysian-owned financial insti- tutions. Nonresidents who have valid work per- mits are allowed to borrow freely from domestic financial institutions to finance up to 60 percent of the purchase price of residential property for their own accommodation. Residents are allowed to borrow in foreign cur- rencies from nonresidents as well as from commer- cial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia up to the aggregate of RM 5 million, including financial guarantees, from nonresident financial institutions. For aggregate amounts exceeding RMS million, however, approval must be obtained from the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds will be used. Approval is readily granted if the loan is to be used for produc- tive investment within the country and the resident borrower is judged to be able to generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the loan. Offshore guar- antees for loans, whether denominated in ringgit or foreign currency, obtained from licensed offshore banks do not require permission if the amount is less than the equivalent of RM 1 million, but these must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Ex- change. Foreign borrowing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, which is not usu- ally granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be effected by commercial banks, pro- vided that payments are made in accordance with the approved terms and conditions of the loans. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia may lend in foreign currency to residents and ac- cept deposits in foreign currency from nonresi- dents. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempted from the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the exportation of Malaysian goods and pro- ceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, may be maintained with any company outside Ma- laysia, provided that monthly returns are submitted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. In addition, companies located in free trade zones or those li- censed as manufacturing warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of Foreign Ex- change, offset their export proceeds through inter- company accounts against payables to overseas companies for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are free to deal (purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in any state or form with any person, except residents of Israel, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro). Changes During 1994 Nonresident Accounts February 1. The limit up to which the filing of a statistical form is not required for payments to non- residents was raised to RM 50,000 from RM 10,000. Exports and Export Proceeds December 1. (1) The limit up to which the comple- tion of an exchange control form for export is not required was raised to RM 100,000 from RM 20,000 a shipment to any country, including exports that are permitted by the relevant government authori- ties to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro); and (2) exporters were al- lowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts maintained with desig- nated banks in Malaysia. Capital January 24. Residents were prohibited to sell the following Malaysian securities to nonresidents: (1) banker's acceptances; (2) negotiable instruments of deposit; (3) Bank Negara bills; (4) Malaysian gov- ernment treasury bills; (5) Malaysian government securities (including Islamic securities) with a re- maining maturity of one year or less; and (6) Caga- mas bonds and notes (whether or not sold or traded on a discount basis) with a remaining maturity of one year or less. February 7. (1) Residents were prohibited to sell to nonresidents all forms of private debt securities (in- cluding commercial papers, but excluding securi- ties convertible into ordinary shares) with a remaining maturity of one year or less; and (2) the restriction on the sale of Malaysian securities to nonresidents was extended to both the initial issue of the relevant security and the subsequent second- ary market trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 309 August 12. (1) The restriction on the sale of Ma- laysian securities, imposed on January 24,1994 and February 7,1994, was lifted; and (2) residents were permitted to sell to nonresidents any Malaysian securities. December 1. (1) Nonresident-controlled compa- nies were allowed to obtain credit facilities, includ- ing immovable property loans, up to RM 10 million without specific approval, provided that at least 60 percent of their total credit facilities from bank- ing institutions were obtained from Malaysian- owned banking institutions; (2) nonresidents with valid work permits were allowed to obtain domes- tic borrowing to finance up to 60 percent of the pur- chase price of residential property for their own accommodation; and (3) residents were allowed to borrow in foreign currency up to a total of the equivalent of RM 5 million from nonresidents as well as from commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1,1987, the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) has followed a floating exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply conditions in the market, although the MMA may intervene in the market when deemed appropriate. The midpoint ex- change rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1994, was Rf 11.77 per US$1. The MMA charges commercial banks a flat 1 percent for remitting foreign banknotes abroad, and there is a daily limit of US$5,000 in a bank's access to foreign currency notes from the MMA. The MMA carries out transactions freely with the private sector through the operations of the Government Exchange Counter. The MMA periodically sets daily limits for each individual's or enterprise's access to foreign ex- change through the Counter, based on the availabil- ity of official reserves. As of January 1994, the limits were US$300 a person for cash, and US$2,000 a per- son or enterprise for checks. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no restrictions on maintaining bank ac- counts or holding cash in foreign currency. Foreign currency must be converted to rufiyaa through a bank or a licensed money changer who is autho- rized by the MMA to exchange foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar) are imported mainly by the State Trading Organization. All goods may be imported under an open general li- cense (OGL) system. Licenses are issued on applica- tion. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. or c. & f. value of imports, as appropriate. The following are exempt from duties: staple com- modities (rice, flour, and sugar) imported mainly by the State Trading Organization, which also holds the exclusive right to procure certain categories of imports for the Government; essential medicines specified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare; textbooks specified by the Ministry of Education; and certain products imported for personal use. Duty rates on daily necessities and essentials range from 5 percent to 20 percent; on items essential for the development of domestic industries, from 10 percent to 20 percent; on items that will enhance the economic welfare of the country, from 25 per- cent to 35 percent; and on items considered to be luxuries and to impede the development of domes- tic industries, from 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign currency without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Locals and foreigners are encouraged to fish in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) outside a 75-mile zone from the shoreline, which is reserved for tradi- tional fishing. They must pay the Government a roy- alty on fish they catch in the EEZ. Exports of fish and fish products (except ambergris) caught by local resi- dents are exempt from duties. Exports of fish caught by foreigners and joint-venture parties are subject to an export duty; re-exports are exempt from the duty. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq, Israel, and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohib- ited. Import operations may be conducted only Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travel- 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 311 ers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign in- vestors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment in the form of either cash or capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Trans- fers of profits are permitted freely. Exemption from duties and taxes other than the tourism tax may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the importation and exportation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 10. Daily limits on MM A sales of foreign ex- change through the Government Exchange Counter were reduced to $300 from $500 a person for cash, and to $2,000 from $5,000-$15,000 a person or enterprise for checks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are offi- cially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies con- cerned. The banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transfers are sub- ject to a stamp tax. Residents may obtain forward exchange rate cover for payments of imports or exports of goods on specified lists. Forward exchange rate cover must be denominated in the currency prescribed in the contract and is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Forward exchange con- tracts for imports must be for a forward period of up to one month and cannot be renewed. For cer- tain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of for- ward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. With the exception of measures relating to the re- patriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange con- trols do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Trade has sole au- thority in exchange control matters but has dele- lrThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. gated certain exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Imports and ex- ports are subject to registration with the Director- ate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Trade. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West Af- rican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may not be credited with CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes is- sued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. As the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes without prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing re- quirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel, which are prohibited, are required only to be registered, and permits are is- sued automatically. A new, revised tariff regime took effect on February 26,1991. Under this regime, products are classified into seven categories and subject to the same rate; under the previous system, about 4,000 categories were subject to different rates. With the exception of petroleum products, tariff rates are ad valorem and based on the c.i.f. value; under the 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 313 old regime, a number of taxes were levied on the basis of administrative values (valeurs mercuriales). Petroleum products are subject to a variable levy, based on administrative values established with reference to prices charged by refineries in Dakar and Abidjan. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5 percent to 55 percent. (These addi- tional taxes were temporarily suspended on Janu- ary 28,1994.) Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- cion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out the equiva- lent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes, and they may take out amounts exceeding this limit in other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corre- sponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Residents traveling to non-BCEAO countries are not allowed to take out BCEAO banknotes. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travel- ers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers to non- BCEAO countries must declare in writing, at the time of departure, all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment, other than banknotes, issued abroad and registered in their name. The re- exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings and other means of payment issued in Mali requires docu- mentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances abroad for family maintenance, education allow- ances, and medical treatment, and transfers of prof- its or dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized intermediaries when the appropriate documentation is presented. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated through the BCEAO and surrendered within 30 days of the pay- ment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate of registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. However, they must declare the amounts they bring in. Capital Capital movements between Mali and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MALI tries require authorization from the Ministry of Fi- nance and Commerce and are restricted, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad. The special control mea- sures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A new investment code was adopted on January 1, 1991, which simplified procedures for foreign and domestic investors to obtain preferen- tial treatment with respect to domestic taxes for investments that meet specific criteria on employ- ment creation, domestic content of production, lo- cation, and value of investment. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial im- ports and exports of gold do not require authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, in- cluding bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of March 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the ex- ternal value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket consisting of the pound sterling, the U.S. dollar, and the European currency unit (ECU). The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar (the intervention currency) on the basis of the latest available market quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currency components of the basket; the ECU component is computed in a similar way on the basis of its own currency compo- sition. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies,1 taking as a basis the rates of the lira against the U.S. dollar and the cross rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, as quoted in the international market. Revised quotations for all major currencies are published by the Central Bank on an hourly basis. The Central Bank applies a spread of 0.125 percent to the middle rate to deter- mine the buying and selling rates for transactions with the credit institutions. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates the credit institutions may quote. On December 30, 1994, the middle rate for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar was US$2.7166 per Lm 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except for a subsidy in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling provided temporarily by the Central Bank to tour operators from the United Kingdom and Ireland. This rate is being gradually phased out, and will cease to apply from the middle of 1997. Malta formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 30,1994. Credit institutions are permitted to provide their customers with forward cover for certain specified transactions in a number of major currencies.2 For- ward rates are published by the Central Bank. Since September 1994, forward rates have been based on differences between domestic and foreign interest !The Central Bank quotes daily rates for 30 other currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar, among which are the Belgian franc, deutsche mark, French franc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilder, pound sterling, Swiss franc, and the ECU. 2Belgian francs, deutsche marks, French francs, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. rates. Any forward contract concluded between a credit institution and a customer must be accompa- nied by a similar contract between that credit insti- tution and the Central Bank. The forward facilities offered by the Central Bank to credit institutions are intended to provide cover for firm contractual com- mitments involving transactions in goods and ser- vices. However, in certain cases, the Central Bank may also permit credit institutions to offer forward facilities for other current account transactions. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange rate risk en- tailed in its forward contracts with credit institu- tions and also provides forward foreign exchange directly to government departments and public sec- tor enterprises for imports of goods and services. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malta, as agent for the Min- ister of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Director of Imports and Internal Trade in the Minis- try of Finance administers trade controls. Approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the credit in- stitutions. They may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities in connection with payments made under delegated authority. In the case of non- residents, the credit institutions must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri, foreign currency, or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee or indemnity. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an external ac- count or in any foreign currency, while the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in any foreign currency.3 A bilateral trade and payments agreement is maintained with the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,4 with 3Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. ^ince January 1,1995, transactions under the agreement have been settled within 90 days. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 MALTA outstanding balances being settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign currencies or Mal- tese liri in external accounts with the authorized banks.5 These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments from residents to nonresidents with transfers from other external accounts belong- ing to nonresidents, with proceeds from sales of gold or foreign currency (including banknotes), and with interest due on balances in the accounts. External ac- counts may be debited freely for payments to resi- dents, for transfers to other external accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). Subject to exchange control permission, compa- nies controlled by nonresidents may maintain for- eign currency accounts in Malta and abroad. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for the importation of items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons, as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as lace and gold and silver fili- gree. Other products may be imported without re- striction under open general licenses (OGL). The importation of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, boneless beef, fresh fish, and certain petroleum products is undertaken only by a state-owned enterprise. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, in- cluding the customs entry form for imports over Lm 20,000 and related import license, where appli- cable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, export-oriented companies may retain foreign exchange earnings for a maxi- mum period of four months to make payments for imports that are connected to their exporting busi- ness; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities if the amounts in- volved exceed the limits delegated to the authorized banks. These limitations are indicative and are in- ^onresidents are defined as persons who are not residents. Residents are defined as persons who are living in Malta and ei- ther have lived in Malta for at least three years or intend to con- tinue living in Malta for at least three years. tended to prevent illegal capital outflows. In the case of leisure and business travel, there are no re- strictions on payments for accommodation and transportation purchased in Malta or abroad with credit cards or Euro-checks. There are, however, lim- itations on the amount of foreign currency (cash and traveler's checks) residents may take abroad. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance equivalent to Lm 2,500. Business travelers are granted an exchange allocation equiva- lent to Lm 200 a person a day. Amounts in excess of the above limits may be granted upon submission of documentary proof of need. The allowance for edu- cational expenses is unlimited. Remittances for cash gifts and family maintenance may be made up to an annual maximum of Lm 250 a person and Lm 2,000 a person, respectively, directly through credit insti- tutions. Remittances above these limits require ex- change control approval. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments is permitted without limit, but is subsequent to verification by the Central Bank. The Insurance Business Act of 1981 requires that life insurance be contracted only in Maltese cur- rency with duly licensed insurance companies. Nonresident travelers may export foreign cur- rency up to the amount they brought in and de- clared to customs on entry; they may export up to Lm 25 a person in Maltese notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain es- sential goods, all products may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to countries in the European Union (EU) require li- censes for administrative purposes. Export pro- ceeds must be received within six months of shipment. Exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks for up to four months to make import pay- ments connected with their exporting business. Export trade is supported by the Government in a variety of ways. Manufactured exports and tour- ism benefit from extensive investment and training incentives provided by the Government. The Malta Export Trade Corporation acts as a technical unit and support agency for the development and pro- motion of trade (mainly exports) in both manufac- tured goods and selected services. Malta is the beneficiary of trade concessions granted by its main trade partners. The Association Agreement with the EU signed in 1970 guarantees that manufactured products (excluding processed foodstuffs) originat- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 317 ing in Malta may enter the EU duty free, subject to the rules of origin. Exports also benefit from the Generalized System of Preference treatment granted by Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States, the European Free Trade Associa- tion, and a number of other countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes. Without the au- thorization of the Minister of Finance, only Lm 50 in notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta may be imported. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents must be approved in advance by the Ministry of Finance. Due regard is given to the pur- pose of the investment and the potential benefits accruing to the local economy. The remittance of liq- uidation proceeds from such investments requires approval from the Central Bank; such approval is always granted, contingent on compliance with cer- tain formalities, such as the submission of docu- mentary evidence of the original investment. Ex- change control approval is required for residents to issue or transfer securities to nonresidents and vice versa; approval, however, is not required for pur- chases by nonresidents of financial instruments listed on the Malta Stock Exchange. Under the Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act of 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, nonresidents may acquire im- movable property in Malta only for their own use, with the permission of the Minister, on the condi- tion that the cost of property to be acquired is not less than Lm 15,000.6 All transfers abroad of a capital nature by resi- dents require approval from the Central Bank, un- less they fall under the authority delegated to credit institutions. Applications for direct investment overseas are considered on their own merits. Port- folio investment abroad by residents is permitted by the Central Bank under certain conditions: the 6For the purposes of this act, the term nonresident includes in- dividuals who are not residing in Malta but excludes Maltese cit- izens living abroad and foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; as well as any association of persons, or any entity, whether corpo- rate or not, if (1) it is registered outside Malta; (2) it has its princi- pal place of residence or business outside Malta; (3) 25 percent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresident per- son; or (4) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, con- trolled by one or more nonresident persons. resident must be over 18 and must not invest more than Lm 2,500 a year. Capital receipts repatriated by residents must be either surrendered to a credit institution for conver- sion into domestic currency or held in the form of an interest-earning foreign currency account with a credit institution. Residents are permitted to hold foreign currency in the form of cash up to a maxi- mum limit equivalent to Lm 1,000. Although applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad are not usually permitted, the Central Bank considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to switch financial investments already held overseas into real estate assets situated outside Malta. Foreign nationals who have been residing in Malta and are taking up residence abroad are allowed to transfer all of their assets to their new country of res- idence. Emigrating Maltese nationals may transfer all assets abroad without limit. Credit institutions, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta (that is, offshore banks), may hold for- eign assets in their portfolio up to a limit specified by the Central Bank; this limit is exclusive of foreign as- sets held to back foreign currency liabilities. Credit institutions may extend loans in foreign currencies to residents up to an amount equivalent to a proportion of their foreign currency liabilities. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and acquire jewelry but must obtain per- mission from the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The impor- tation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genuine numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for the importa- tion of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Sub- ject to exchange control permission, authorized im- porters may import gold bullion solely for the use of jewelers and other industrial users. The exportation of gold by residents other than the monetary author- ities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement November 30. Malta formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Arti- cles of Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 MALTA Imports and Import Payments March 3. Used motor cars were exempted from import-licensing control. April 18. Imports of evaporated milk were re- moved from state monopoly. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Approval authority for the transfer of funds abroad to other family members was dele- gated to credit institutions for amounts not exceed- ing Lm 2,000 a year. January 1. The requirement of an auditor's certifi- cate for the transfer of profits and dividends to non- residents was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The period during which export pro- ceeds are allowed to be retained in foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks was ex- tended to four months. Capital January 1. The maximum annual amount that a resident over 18 years of age can invest in foreign currency was raised from Lm 1,000 to Lm 2,500 annually. January 1. The maximum amount of foreign cur- rency that a resident may keep in his or her posses- sion was raised to Lm 1,000 from Lm 50. January 1. Proceeds from life insurance policies or from compensation awards for disability and simi- lar cases became fully eligible for investment over- seas without exchange control approval. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 20. The Central Bank began quoting the ex- change rates for the Maltese lira. Deals with credit institutions may be made in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, in amounts of not less than Lm 150,000; the interbank market would be al- lowed to handle transactions in smaller amounts. The Central Bank, in addition, ceased to cover for- ward deals of credit institutions. Imports and Import Payments January 16. Imports of boneless beef were re- moved from state monopoly. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The travel allowance to which resi- dents are entitled was increased to Lm 2,500 for ev- ery trip, irrespective of the purpose of the trip. January 1. The maximum annual amount of funds each resident may transfer abroad to other family members or as a cash gift under the authority dele- gated to credit institutions was raised to Lm 2,500. January 1. Authority to approve the payment of dividends to nonresidents was delegated to credit institutions. Capital January 1. Resident individuals and companies were allowed to invest directly up to Lm 50,000 a year in overseas firms. January 1. The maximum annual amount of for- eign currency that residents over 18 years of age are allowed to invest was raised to Lm 5,000 from Lm 2,000. Resident companies were allowed to in- vest up to Lm 5,000 a year in foreign currency. January 1. Loans of up to Lm 5,000 between resi- dents and nonresidents were allowed to be made through credit institutions. Resident companies were allowed to obtain loans in excess of Lm 5,000 from foreign sources, provided that they are in a position to produce updated audited accounts. However, in cases where such borrowing is for a period of less than three years' maturity, approval authority from the Central Bank would be required. Gold January 1. Gold bullion and gold coins were sub- ject to a value-added tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of the Marshall Is- lands is the U.S. Dollar.1 There is no central mone- tary institution and there are no exchange control regulations. The authorities do not buy or sell for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are au- thorized foreign exchange dealers. These commer- cial banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Forward trans- actions may be conducted through these commer- cial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Republic of the Marshall Islands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 21,1992. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to import-licensing re- quirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied under the Import Duties Act of 1989. Specific duties are levied at the following rates: cigarettes, 50 cents a pack (of 20); carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, 25 cents a can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); beer and malt beverages, 50 cents a can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $25 a U.S. gallon; wines, $15 a U.S. gallon; gasoline, 25 cents a U.S. gallon; propane, 3 cents a pound; jet fuel, 15 cents a U.S. gallon; and kerosene, 5 cents a U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties range from 5 percent to 75 percent. With the exception of food items, medicines, building materials, and heavy machin- ery, which carry a rate of 5 percent, most other prod- ucts are subject to a duty at the rate of 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing re- quirements, and there are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing, processing, and exportation of copra and copra by-products are solely conducted by the government-owned Tobo- lar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are required to submit applica- tions to the Cabinet and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. The Cabinet has the authority to formulate policies regarding incen- tives and priorities for foreign direct investment. All other inward and outward capital transfers are unrestricted with the exception that commercial banks cannot transfer abroad more than 25 percent of deposits received from Marshallese citizens, in- cluding domestic corporations and the authorities. This provision does not prevent a depositor from transferring any deposits abroad. Changes During 1994 lrThe Marshall Islands must consult the United States if it de- cides to issue its own currency. No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is de- termined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish pe- seta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights as- signed to these currencies are based on the currencies' relative importance in Mauritania's to- tal exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the interna- tional foreign exchange market, as published by Reuters, are used to determine the ouguiya's daily exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily ex- change rates for 16 other currencies,1 including those used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies as published by Reuters. On December 31,1994, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 128.37 per US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied to purchases and sales through commercial bank accounts. The Central Bank of Mauritania sells foreign currency notes and traveler's checks only for official travel and for other purposes judged to be exceptional; commissions of 1.75 percent are applied to purchases and sales involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are free to set their ex- change rates for foreign currency notes and trav- eler's checks, which they may buy on a no- questions-asked basis. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 320 Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that it has approved and to sell foreign currency notes and traveler's checks to meet bona fide invisi- ble payments up to specified limits. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information neces- sary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange control approval from the Central Bank Special regimes apply to the impqijs of government entities and state enterprises. A tax of 3 percent is levied on international trade to finance the collection of statistics. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Settle- ments with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: con- vertible ouguiya accounts and convertible foreign currency accounts. Convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited only with (1) transfers from other convertible ouguiya accounts, (2) 15 percent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and (3) 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from ex- ports by qualifying enterprises. These accounts may be debited in foreign currency only for ex- penses relating to exporters' production activities. Convertible foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rency and transfers from other convertible foreign currency accounts; they may be debited for any payment without approval from the Central Bank, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign banknotes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 321 Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special authorizations from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in import transactions. Importer-exporter cards must be renewed every year. Debtors in arrears with the banking system cannot have their cards renewed. Prepayment of the minimum turnover tax (TCA) in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign ex- change approval from the Central Bank. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except for imports directly fi- nanced from abroad. Import permits are auctioned monthly by the Central Bank. Only holders of im- porter-exporter cards, public enterprises, and other special enterprises can participate in the auctions. Permits are valid for one month. After buying the permit at an auction, the importer is entitled to pur- chase the necessary foreign exchange but not earlier than ten days before shipment of goods by a foreign supplier if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have al- ready arrived. Advance payments for imports re- quire the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of im- port bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insur- ance and Reinsurance Company. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. There is a general customs duty rate of 15 percent, and a reduced rate of 5 percent applies to selected goods. Certain capital goods and various consumer goods, such as tea, salt, and medicines, are exempt. All imports from the West African Economic Com- munity (WAEC) that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt, as are some im- ports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the Euro- pean Union (EU). In addition to the customs duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5 percent to 166 percent (with various exemptions); a turnover tax is levied at a minimum rate of 10 percent and a maximum rate of 20 percent (with various exemptions); and a regional cooperation tax is levied on certain industrial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of import duties that are levied on other imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel are prohibited. There are no limits on the acquisition and transfer of foreign ex- change through the free market in banknotes and traveler's checks for travel, medical treatment, and study abroad. However, requests exceeding UM 15,000 a day for a trip abroad must be submitted to the Central Bank. Other payments for invisibles must be approved by the Central Bank. Foreigners working in Mauritania may transfer savings from their salaries up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauri- tania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards and holders of special authorization from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 20,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Ex- porters must submit to the Central Bank for ap- proval Certificates for Export, on which they specify the quantity, value, and destination of the goods to be exported, and they must undertake to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered no later than the due date of the receipt, which nor- mally must not be longer than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company. Exporters are allowed to retain 20 per- cent of their proceeds in foreign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks. A tax is levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 8 percent to 20 percent for specialized fisheries and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and lobster. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from nonresidents for services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected; 90 percent of proceeds must be surrendered within four months of the due date of the payment; the remaining 10 percent may be re- tained in foreign currency accounts at domestic banks. The importation of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Authorized banks may buy foreign currency notes and traveler's checks on a no-questions-asked basis. Only authorized banks may hold foreign ex- change notes and traveler's checks. Resident and nonresident Mauritanians can freely import foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 MAURITANIA exchange notes and traveler's checks, but they must exchange them at an authorized bank within 15 days of arrival. Nonresident non-Mauritanians must declare imported foreign currency notes and traveler's checks in excess of $2,000; they can re- export the declared amount deducted by the equiv- alent of UM 10,000 for each day of their stay. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Is- rael are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indi- cated below. Residents must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to invest abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days of receipt of the declaration. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investments must also be declared. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Cen- tral Bank within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior au- thorization from the Central Bank, as does borrow- ing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 pro- vides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and divi- dends accruing from these investments can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free tcf hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and ex- ports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds 2Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Mauritania. Including those made through foreign companies that are di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. October 30. The proportion of export proceeds that an exporter may retain in foreign currency amounts with domestic banks was raised to 10 per- cent from 5 percent for services and to 20 percent from 10 percent for goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Ru- pee, the external value of which is determined by supply and demand in the interbank exchange mar- ket. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates were Mau Rs 17.997 and Mau Rs 18.221, re- spectively, per US$1. A duty of 5 percent applies, under certain conditions, to purchases of gold coins. Companies operating in the export processing zone (EPZ) and other Mauritian exporters and trad- ers dealing in priority imports are authorized to en- gage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies operating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are autho- rized to maintain, with local commercial banks, ac- counts denominated in foreign currencies. Mauritius formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 29,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated by the Financial Secretary. The Bank of Mauritius issues foreign ex- change dealing licenses, and commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transac- tions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is respon- sible for issuing import permits where necessary. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mau- ritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bi- lateral payments agreement with Madagascar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mau- ritius, (2) transfers from other external accounts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers of any convertible foreign currency by nonresi- dents. These accounts may be debited for (1) pay- ments to residents of Mauritius, (2) transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The Nonresident (External Account) Scheme reintro- duced on September 25,1985 is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incentives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to open savings or fixed- deposit accounts with commercial banks in Mauri- tius in rupees and term deposit accounts (for a min- imum of one year) in foreign currencies. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free at any time to transfer the balances of their ac- counts, together with interest. As of August 16, 1993, the Bank of Mauritius no longer provides ex- change rate guarantees for balances in nonresident accounts with respect to new deposits. Blocked accounts are used to credit funds owned by persons and firms residing outside Mauritius and realized from investments not made with funds transferred from abroad, as well as funds represent- ing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 500,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments made by residents of Mauritius and specifically au- thorized for credit to a blocked account; these ac- counts may also be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from blocked accounts may be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, however, the proceeds are once more directed to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supply (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1991, controlled goods, as specified in the first schedule, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Certain im- ports are subject to customs surcharges, and a duty of 17 percent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Commercial banks are authorized to approve and /transfer funds for import payments without limit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports and purchases of foreign exchange for travel are permit- ted without restriction. Residents may hold interna- 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MAURITIUS tional credit cards and use them to pay for travel expenses abroad. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency they de- clared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. Exports of certain foodstuffs, includ- ing fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syn- dicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on the first 3,000 tons of sugar exports, but a uni- form tax of 18.75 percent is levied on exports above that amount. Exporters are allowed to operate for- eign exchange accounts at the commercial banks. All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an au- thorized dealer or credited to a foreign currency ac- count to meet payments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but travelers may not import more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic cur- rency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Foreign investors are allowed to repa- triate their capital, without paying a tax and with- out prior approval from the Bank of Mauritius, if the investments are made with funds transferred from abroad, including capital gains. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not made through transfers of funds from abroad must be credited to blocked accounts. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 5 percent duty or for invest- ment in Mauritius without payment of the duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of offshore banking facilities came into force on January 1,1989. Emigrants to any country may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of duty, the equiv- alent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauri- tian assets upon redesignation as nonresidents, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a blocked ac- count; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to a 5 percent duty. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commemorative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as per- sonal jewelry and ornaments. The importation and exportation of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments for private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to a 5 percent duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The Bank of Mauritius stopped quoting ex- change rates. The external value of the Mauritian Rupee began to be determined by supply and de- mand in the Port Louis interbank exchange market. July 1. Foreign exchange dealing licenses began to be issued. Foreign exchange dealers were permitted to provide forward cover without restriction. July 1. Commercial banks were no longer re- quired to seek approval from the Bank of Mauritius to carry out international transactions. July 1. The capital transfer tax of 5 percent was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the New Mexican Peso1, the external value of which is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1994, the ex- change rate was Mex$5.325 per US$1. No limita- tions apply on access to ownership or transfer of foreign exchange. Forward cover is available from commercial banks. On November 12, 1946, Mexico formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus- trial Promotion (SECOFl). Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. Prescription of Currency In accordance with payments agreements with the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country con- cerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar payments arrange- ments exist with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Malaysia, and Nicaragua. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving do- mestic currency deposits from foreign financial in- stitutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except in cases (1) where such funds repre- sent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to the Mexican bank where the account is held; (2) where the funds represent the counterpart of foreign cur- rency sold to other Mexican banks; (3) where the funds represent the redemption, sale, or interest payments of securities held in custody in the Mexi- can bank in which the account is held, only if the se- curities were bought with the proceeds from any of the transactions defined in (1) or (2); and (4) where authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Manager of Provisions to the Financial System in the Bank of Mexico. Commercial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars in Mexico only for (1) residents in the northern border area of Mexico, (2) firms operating in Mexico in any part of the country, and (3) official representatives of foreign governments and international organiza- tions and foreigners working in these institutions. Commercial banks are permitted to open, in any part of the country, time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars and payable only abroad for firms es- tablished in Mexico. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from SECOFl are required for only 149 of the 10,065 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for nine months and may be extended for three months. Import needs are es- timated at 20 percent above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier li- censes have been effectively used. For some com- modities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an over- all limit. Depending on the importer's perfor- mance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an ex- porter's declaration of shipment. Since July 1,1988, the import tariff structure has been based on the harmonized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from the member countries of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are sub- ject to preferential tariffs. A free trade zone regime is granted until August 31,1995 for certain regions2 in the country, including the newly established bor- der zone with Guatemala. This regime allows im- aOn January 1, 1993, a new currency, the new Mexican peso, equivalent to 1,000 (old) Mexican pesos, was introduced. 2These regions are the free trade zones of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo, and the partial free trade zone of Sonora. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 MEXICO ports into these regions without customs tariffs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The contracting of personal insurance policies abroad is not restricted, but casualty insurance policies in- tended to cover events that will take place in Mexico may be contracted only with Mexican companies, in- cluding subsidiaries of foreign insurance companies established in Mexico. Reinsurance may be con- tracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items are prohibited. Under the Pro- gram for Integral Promotion of Exports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by ex- porters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the use of proceeds from invisibles. Capital Foreign direct investments are normally allowed up to 100 percent of equity without prior authoriza- tion, with certain exceptions. (1) Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; generation of nuclear energy; radioactive minerals; communication via satellite; telegraphs; radioteleg- raphy; postal service; railroads; issuance of paper money; minting of coins; control and supervision of ports; and airports and heliports. (2) Investments in the following sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican nationals or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and distribution of liquified petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting, with the exception of cable television; road transport (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions and development banks; and certain professional and technical services. However, foreign investors wishing to invest in these activities may, through the Neutral Investment Mechanism, acquire shares in companies engaged in these sectors. (3) Investments in the following sectors require prior authorization: acquisition of more than 49 percent of the equity in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets ex- ceeds US$25 million; maritime transport and certain port services; administration of air terminals; cellular telephones; construction activities, including the construction of pipelines for oil and its derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; credit information; security rating institutions; and insurance agents. In order to obtain prior authoriza- tion, investors must submit their proposals to the National Commission of Foreign Investment. Ap- proval is automatic if a formal response is not made within 45 working days of the date of application. In reaching its decision, the Commission takes into ac- count the impact of investments on employment and training of workers, the technological contribution, compliance with environmental provisions in rele- vant laws, and the contribution to the economy. (4) Ceilings on foreign ownership are applied to the fol- lowing sectors: financial institutions; air transporta- tion; manufacturing of explosives and firearms; printing and publication of domestic newspapers; agricultural land; cable television and basic tele- phone services; video text and packet-switching ser- vices; and transportation by air and land, and certain activities related to maritime transport. Mexican banks are authorized to grant loans in foreign cur- rency for export activities. Upon registration with the Ministry of Foreign Relations, Mexican companies with foreign partici- pation may be allowed to own land for nonresiden- tial purposes in restricted border (within 100 kilometers) and seacoast (within 50 kilometers) ar- eas. The acquisition of land rights by foreigners for residential purposes in restricted areas must be ef- fected through a renewable 50-year trust held by a Mexican bank and requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Relations. There are no restrictions on portfolio investments. Gold Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the prevailing exchange rate. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement December 20. The upper limit of the exchange rate band was raised to Mex$3.99 per US$1, represent- ing a devaluation of 15 percent. December 22. The peso was allowed to float, and the exchange regime based on the crawling peg was abandoned. Imports and Import Payments September 22. SECOFI imposed punitive import tariffs of 279 percent on bicycle tires and inner ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 327 tubes, 181 percent on brass padlocks, and 149 per- cent on bicycles shipped from China. October 27. An import tariff of 28 percent was im- posed on fish flour from Chile. Exports and Export Proceeds February 2. Powdered milk was exempted from the licensing requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federated States of Microne- sia is the U.S. Dollar.1 There is no central monetary institution. A statutory banking board, established in 1980, regulates the financial system. Foreign ex- change transactions are handled by three commer- cial banks, which buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations.2 Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to any import-licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or spe- cific basis, as follows: cigarettes, carbonated nonal- coholic beverages, drink mixes, drink preparations, coffee, tea, beer and malt beverages, and wines, 25 percent; spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $10 a U.S. gallon; and gasoline and diesel fuel, 5 cents a U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties are 3 per- cent on foodstuffs, 100 percent on laundry bar soap, and 4 percent on all other products. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing re- quirements, but exporters must obtain an export business license. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing and expor- tation of copra are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Commercial export docu- ments are verified by the customs authorities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are regulated by federal and state authorities. They must obtain an application from the federal Government and submit it for re- view and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located. They must obtain a license from the federal Government to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal Government and submit- ted to the Federal Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located and operated. Pri- orities for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Al- though no special financial incentives are offered to foreign investors, a number of incentives are avail- able under certain U.S. laws (e.g., duty-free access to the U.S. market for some products). Foreign invest- ment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with laws prohibiting land ownership by foreigners.3 Foreign investors nor- mally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land acquired for their business.4 There are no re- strictions on the repatriation of profit or capital. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. lrThe Federated States of Micronesia must consult with the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. 2The Compact Agreement with the United States exempts the importation, use, possession, and exportation of U.S. currency by U.S. armed forces and U.S. contractors or personnel from any form of regulation, restriction, or control by the Federated States of Micronesia. 3Article XII, Section 4 of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia prohibits a noncitizen, or a corporation not wholly owned by citizens, from acquiring title to land or waters in the country. 4Article XII, Section 5 of the Constitution prohibits "agree- ments for the use of land for an indefinite period/' 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of February 28,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Moldova is the Moldovan Leu (plural: Lei).1 The exchange rate sys- tem consists of the official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar for noncash transactions, which is estab- lished in the fixing sessions at the Chisinau Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange (CIFCE), and the exchange rate for cash transactions, which is freely determined in the exchange market operated by ex- change bureaus and other authorized dealers. The official exchange rate applies to foreign exchange transactions carried out by the National Bank of Moldova (NBM), including official external debt- service payments, and is used for accounting and tax valuation purposes. CIFCE fixing sessions are conducted three times a week at the NBM. Since February 1995, sessions have been conducted daily. Enterprises engaging in importing activities may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks. On December 31, 1994, the average official exchange rate was MDL 4.27 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the banking sector. Moldova formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Section 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from June 30,1995. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Regulations on Currency Control in the Repub- lic of Moldova, which came into effect on January 17,1994. The NBM has the ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is re- sponsible for managing the country's foreign ex- change reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign ex- change bureaus that are authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in any currency that is recognized by the NBM. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own lrThe national currency, the Moldovan leu, was introduced on November 29,1993 at the conversion rate of 1,000 Moldovan ru- bles to 1 leu. buying and selling rates for the foreign exchange transactions of natural persons, subject to a maxi- mum margin of 10 percent between the buying and selling rates. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements with the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Romania are made through a system of correspondent accounts, in the national currencies of the parties as well as in hard currencies. The majority of settlements with these countries are effected through commercial banks. With other countries the settlements are made in hard currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open currency accounts, which they may use at their own discretion at authorized banks. Since November 15, 1994, the surrender requirement of hard currency on the residents' accounts was abolished. The source of foreign exchange is not subject to investi- gation. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks in the Republic of Moldova. The opening of current and other accounts by Moldova residents in foreign banks abroad requires approval from the NBM. Account holders may not use foreign ex- change balances in their accounts to settle domestic transactions. Nonresidents with foreign currency deposits at authorized banks in Moldova may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the foreign ex- change market through authorized banks. Nonresident entities with accounts in Moldovan lei received as a result of current international oper- ation with residents of the Republic of Moldova, may convert MDL into any other currency and re- patriate it. Imports and Exports A few products (medicine, medical equipment, chemicals, and industrial waste) are subject to licenses for the purpose of protecting the consumer and ensur- ing compliance with domestic standards. Imports from the countries of the former Soviet Union are not subject to any taxes, except for a license fee of 0.1 per- cent of the value of the goods, which is converted into 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 MOLDOVA the national currency on the date of payment at the rate established by the National Bank, and a customs fee of 0.25 percent of the value of the goods. Imports from other countries are subject to import tariffs, cus- toms fees, and license fees. In September 1993, Mold- ova introduced a new tariff regime (amended in March 1994), under which most tariff rates range up to 50 percent. Energy, medicine, medical equipment, raw materials, cereals, and baby food are exempt from tariffs. The tariff rate for chemical products, cotton, and minerals is 3 percent; rates exceeding 30 percent are levied on alcoholic beverages (100 percent), ciga- rettes (70 percent), vehicles (50 percent), and TV re- ceivers (50 percent). Exports of a number of goods (e.g., those subject to administrative prices, goods considered to be important for national security, med- icines, and goods of cultural value) are subject to licenses. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 60 days from the day stipulated for the receipt of payment, but not later than 180 days from the issu- ance of the custom declaration or the day a bill, state- ment, or protocol confirming that services have been rendered or work has been done. However, the NBM can extend the period for a valid reason. Proceeds from exports may be retained by exporters. There are no taxes on exports except for a customs fee of 0.25 percent of the value of the shipment. The customs tariff approved by the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova envisages successive re- ductions in the rates during 1995, so that they will not exceed 20 percent by December 31,1995. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market. For travel abroad, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to $1,000 in the exchange market for each trip and take it abroad without additional authorization. Payments by resi- dent individuals in excess of $500 are subject to ap- proval on a case-by-case basis under Moldovan law. All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated. Capital All capital transactions and credits obtained from nonresidents require specific approval from the NBM. Loan agreements with nonresidents are re- quired to be registered with the NBM. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Regulations governing domestic trade in gold are established by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 17. A new legal framework for regulating foreign exchange transactions and allowing resi- dents to purchase foreign exchange for most cur- rent international transactions came into effect. Imports and Exports November 15. The surrender requirement on pro- ceeds from exports was abolished. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement June 30. Moldova formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mongolia is the Tugrik (100 Mon- go per 1 Tugrik). The exchange rate is determined by demand and supply conditions in the interbank exchange market. The central bank may intervene in the market to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. The central bank rate is set by the Bank of Mongolia as the midpoint of the previous day's average buying and selling rates established by transactions among market participants. The central bank rate is applied to the public sector's transactions in imports and services, including debt-service payments, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other transactions, including sales of retained foreign exchange by public sector enterprises, take place at the free market rate. On December 31,1994, the average (middle) rate in the interbank exchange market was Tug 415.5 per US$1. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in in- ternational markets. Administration of Control International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law of June 1,1994. The Foreign Exchange Law provides the framework for a liberal exchange system where the exchange rate is set by the central bank, based on market rates, and the public is free to maintain accounts in foreign ex- change with authorized banks and perform current and capital international transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Mongolia notified the Fund on November 4, 1994 that restrictions had been imposed on certain transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Trade with all countries is conducted at world prices in convertible currencies. Trade with certain former members of the Council for Mutual Eco- nomic Assistance (CMEA) is conducted on an ad hoc basis under bilateral arrangements concluded before 1991. While some of the outstanding bal- ances under the clearing arrangements of the former International Bank for Economic Coopera- tion (IBEC) have been settled, others are still under negotiation. Under the inoperative bilateral trade arrangement, there are also outstanding balances with China, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro). Mongolia maintains a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Resident Accounts Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts. Resident per- sons and enterprises may maintain foreign ex- change accounts at authorized banks. They may credit these accounts with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may use the balances on the accounts for any pur- pose without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports are free of quantitative restric- tions, except for the ban on the export of raw cash- mere and for bona fide environmental, health, and security reasons. Imports of drugs, materials that en- courage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. Trade in the following items requires a special permit: historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Exporters are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings. Exporters may use their foreign exchange earnings for any purpose, including sale in the foreign exchange market or deposit in a for- eign exchange account. Imports are subject to a uniform 15 percent cus- toms duty. Machinery and equipment imported by joint ventures and equipment used by disabled people are exempt from the customs duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles is not provided at the official exchange rate but may be purchased without restriction on the interbank exchange market. Remittances of dividends and profits from investments in convertible currencies 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MONGOLIA are permitted under the Law on Foreign Invest- ment of May 1990 (see below). Proceeds from in- visibles may be sold in the interbank exchange market without restriction. The importation and exportation of domestic banknotes are prohibited. There is no limit on the amount of foreign cur- rency notes residents or nonresidents may import or export. Capital Foreign direct investment has been liberalized, and foreign investment by private corporations is now being encouraged. The Law on Foreign In- vestment of July 1993 has codified the procedures for establishing foreign firms in Mongolia and provides certain guarantees and privileges to for- eign investors. Among its provisions are that these firms will not be nationalized and that for- eign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. Transfers of profits abroad are not re- stricted. The maximum rate of profit tax is 40 percent, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for various periods (from three to ten years), depending on the sector and export perfor- mance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and they may im- port or export directly or in cooperation with for- eign trade enterprises. The law particularly encourages investment in export promotion, projects using advanced technology, and the ex- ploitation of natural resources. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 1. A new foreign exchange law was adopted, retaining the interbank market system but empower- ing the Bank of Mongolia to intervene more directly. Administration of Control June 1. A new foreign exchange law came into effect. Prescription of Currency April 1. The bilateral payments agreements with China and the Russian Federation became inoperative Imports and Exports April 1. A ban was introduced on exports for raw cashmere. June 1. The exemptions from customs duties for selected chemicals, wood products, industrial con- struction equipment, and motor vehicles imported for personal use were removed. July 1. The list of goods subject to import duty rates of less than the uniform 15 percent was nar- rowed to 21 categories from 31. The uniform rate would now apply to seeds, flour, yeast, chemicals, sawed wood, timber, sacks, spare parts of audio and video equipment, electrical consumer goods, and spare parts for transport vehicles. August 1. The export-licensing requirements for meat, wheat, and live animals (except for breeding) were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of February 28,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes a daily rate for the French franc on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geo- graphic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are estab- lished on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in rela- tion to the French franc in the Paris exchange mar- ket. On December 31,1994, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.67626 per F 1, and the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.9596 per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each separate cur- rency. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transac- tions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Clearing operations between banks are not permit- ted; thus, no foreign exchange market exists in Mo- rocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions by travelers in bank- notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in convertible currencies (those listed in footnote 1 and French francs, but excluding Alge- rian dinars, Libyan dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, and Tunisian dinars) and specified other curren- cies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at Bank Al-Maghrib when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility is available for exports and imports of items benefit- ing from special customs arrangements. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign ex- change that have been concluded between banks and their customers result in reverse contracts be- 1 Algerian dinars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markka a, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti di- nars, Libyan dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Gibraltar pounds. tween the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corresponds to the spot exchange rate, against the payment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by authorized banks; provisions are made for extending contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Arbitrage operations may be ex- ecuted freely in favor of nonresident customers. Morocco formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Office, an agency under the Ministry of Fi- nance. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are is- sued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Imports not involving payment do not require authorization. Part of the Port of Tangier is designated a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency Payments between Morocco and the rest of the world may be made in any currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib (see footnote 1) or through for- eign accounts in convertible dirhams or foreign cur- rency accounts opened in Moroccan banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The following accounts may be opened and oper- ated by nonresidents. Foreign currency accounts in the name of foreign na- tionals may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who are either resi- dents or nonresidents. These accounts may be freely credited with transfers from abroad with for- eign banknotes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency and with foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib, following general or special 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 MOROCCO authorization from the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a foreign third party, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib and for the payment of checks denominated in for- eign currency. Foreign currency accounts in the name of Moroccan residents living abroad may be opened by individuals of Moroccan nationality residing abroad on condi- tion that the initial deposit equals or exceeds the foreign currency equivalent of DH 100,000. These accounts may be credited freely with transfers from abroad, checks or any other means of payment de- nominated in foreign currency, foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following gen- eral or special authorization from the Exchange Of- fice, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another for- eign currency account or from an account in con- vertible dirhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams, foreign currency subscriptions for notes issued by the Mo- roccan Treasury, and for surrender of foreign cur- rency to Bank Al-Maghrib. Foreign currency accounts of exporters may be opened freely by Moroccan exporters of goods and services who are already holders of convertible ac- counts for export promotion. Those who do not hold such an account must have the prior consent of the Exchange Office. These accounts may be freely credited with 10 percent of foreign exchange receipts in the case of exporters of goods and 5 per- cent in the case of exporters of services. The record- ing of foreign currency amounts corresponding to these rates must be effected simultaneously with the surrender to Bank Al-Maghrib of the remaining 90 percent or 95 percent as appropriate. These ac- counts may also be credited freely with the return on invested funds lodged therein and with transfers from another foreign currency account of the same holder. They may be debited for professional ex- penses covered by exchange regulations, invest- ment with authorized intermediary banks, subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for credit of another foreign currency ac- count or a convertible dirham account for exporters (CCPEX) opened in the name of the same holder, and for surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib. Foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be opened by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with gener- ally or specifically authorized transfers in favor of the account holder and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of foreign exchange, including banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases of for- eign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib. Transfers be- tween foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonresident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These ac- counts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank- notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of interest ac- crued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign ac- counts in convertible dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or for other non- residents, for the purchase of foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, or other foreign-currency-denomi- nated means of payment. Convertible dirham accounts for exporters may be opened by exporters of goods or services with Mo- roccan banks. These accounts may be credited with the equivalent of 20 percent of the foreign currency repatriated and surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib in the case of exporters of goods or 10 percent in the case of exporters of services. Balances on these ac- counts may be used to finance expenditure con- tracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100 percent of the foreign currency repatriated. Exporters have the choice of maintaining either foreign currency accounts or convertible dirham accounts for export- ers. They may also hold both accounts simulta- neously, provided that the overall percentage of export earnings to be credited to both accounts does not exceed 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings in the case of exporters of goods and 10 percent in the case of exporters of services, with a maximum of 10 percent to be credited to the foreign currency accounts in the case of exporters of goods and 5 percent in the case of exporters of services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 335 Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not enti- tled to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred henceforth within a maximum period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, to fund investments in Morocco, buy treasury bonds, purchase Moroccan marketable securities, settle expenses incurred in Morocco and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The beneficia- ries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50 percent of an investor's participation in in- vestments in Morocco (the remainder must be fi- nanced with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term ac- counts may be transferred abroad without restric- tion in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to restriction unless goods are included in the list requiring import licenses. After the elimination of 460 product items in March 1992, the negative list includes petroleum products, sugar, edible oil, cereals and products derived from these, as well as arms, explosives, and certain vehi- cles.3 In addition, imports of products that affect public security, morale, and health may be prohib- ited. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insur- ance companies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be under- written abroad; this group includes externally funded imports, if the financing terms include for- eign insurance, capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts, or duly authorized investment programs, crude and diesel oil, gas, cattle, and wood. For all imports, the importer must subscribe to a security—a certificate of import commitment—that must be lodged with an authorized bank, which may make payments related to goods and inciden- •^mpprts of sugar, cereals (and products derived from cereals), and edible oil are planned to be liberalized during the second half of 1995. tal costs upon submission of the required docu- ments. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed with foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to con- tract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for imports of capital goods up to 25 percent of the f .o.b. value of the goods. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem ba- sis, with a maximum tariff rate of 35 percent, except for a limited number of agricultural goods, for which the maximum rate is 45 percent, and a mini- mum tariff rate of 5 percent on consumer goods not produced in Morocco. In addition to regular cus- toms tariffs, fiscal levies of 10 percent, 12.5 percent, or 15 percent ad valorem are levied, according to the category of goods. Imports used to manufacture goods for export production activities are exempt from customs duties and other import restrictions under the temporary admission scheme. Preferen- tial customs tariff treatments are also granted for imports of capital goods to enterprises in the tourist and shipping sectors and other industrial enter- prises qualifying under the provisions of Morocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items representing about 8 percent of industrial production are subject to minimum import prices (reference prices) for antidumping or safeguarding purposes. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or ex- port documents without authorization from the Ex- change Office. Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners work- ing for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector or engaged in professions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer up to 50 percent of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Re- tired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans have the same entitlement; they may also freely contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Commercial banks are authorized to provide Mo- roccan residents with a travel allowance in foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 MOROCCO exchange equivalent to a maximum of DH 5,000 a person a year for travel purposes without Exchange Office approval. This allowance may be increased by DH 1,500 for a minor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent and accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents living abroad upon their return to their country of residence at the end of their stay in Morocco, provided they have not benefited from the 15 percent allocation on remittances effected 12 months previously up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from in- come. A foreign exchange allocation equivalent to a maximum of DH 2,000 a month may be granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts maintained with Moroc- can banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. These banks have been empowered to provide ad- vance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by individuals not belong- ing to either of these categories. In all cases, busi- ness travel allowances may be added to allowances for tourist travel. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to persons traveling abroad for medical treatment up to the equivalent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on their behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions concerned. They are also authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of persons residing abroad permanently. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain con- vertible dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the full dirham equivalent of for- eign exchange earnings, and foreign currency ac- counts may be credited with 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. Foreign air- lines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers with re- spect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. Moroccan film distribution companies may trans- fer to foreign film producers or distributors user fees and other additional expenses related to the showing of these films in Morocco. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to individuals studying abroad without prior Exchange Office authorization as follows: (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly llow- ance for living expenses amounting to the equiva- lent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship hold- ers and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. In addition to these facilities, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a properly drawn-up lease and a certificate of resi- dence or any other equivalent document. Applica- tions for additional amounts must be referred to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Transfers relating to remittances for family main- tenance are approved upon presentation of docu- mentary evidence. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of exchange certificate(s) up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. The exportation of domestic banknotes prohibited. is Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods may be exported freely. Only flour, charcoal, certain animals, plants, and archaeo- logical items are subject to authorization. However, for phosphates, the Cherifien Phosphate Office (OCP) has the export monopoly. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax of 0.5 percent, except for hydrocarbons, for which the tax is 5 percent, and phosphates, for which a tax on phosphate exploration equivalent to DH 34 for each ton of gross phosphates has been levied since 1992. A 1 percent quality control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The for- eign exchange must be surrendered within one ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 337 month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business condi- tions and approved by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance imports of goods and raw materi- als of goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality, including in- dividuals and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncom- mercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommer- cial receipts only if the receipts result from their ac- tivities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surrender within one month all foreign ex- change in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export without restriction for- eign banknotes obtained by debiting their accounts in convertible dirhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15 percent of foreign ex- change repatriated and surrendered 12 months be- fore to Moroccan banks up to a limit of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan resi- dents living abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist allocation that applies to res- idents. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign cur- rency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Capital The industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and eases the repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors and provides for full repatriation of tourist-related after-tax profits, without any time restriction. All types of investment are permitted without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, includ- ing (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capital increase of an existing company; (3) purchases of Mo- roccan securities; (4) contributions to partnerships; (5) purchases of real property; (6) self-financing con- struction projects; (7) establishment or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capital through the capitalization of reserves, carry- overs, or reserve provisions that have become avail- able or through the consolidation of partnership current accounts. Operations involving transfers of investment ownership between foreigners do not re- quire the authorization of the Exchange Office. As of September 1992, a convertibility regime was introduced in favor of foreign investment, which includes investment by foreign corporations, resident or nonresident foreign individuals, and Moroccans residing abroad. Such investment must be financed in foreign exchange or by a similar method: capitalization of reserves and profits, con- tributions in kind, consolidation of trade claims, or use of assets in convertible term accounts. Under this convertibility regime, exchange regulations permit the investors in question to invest freely in Morocco, remit the income thus generated directly to the banking system with no restriction on amounts or time, and repatriate the proceeds of the liquidation or sale of such investment, including any profits, also without prior authorization. The holders of convertible term accounts may freely use funds in these accounts for the follow- ing purposes: for financing investment operations in Morocco in all sectors of economic activity, re- gardless of the kind of investment; for purchasing treasury bonds under the existing laws; for current account advances from foreign corporations to their subsidiaries in Morocco and any other place- ments the account holder may make; for acquiring transferable securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; for settling living expenses and any other expenses in dirhams in Morocco in- curred by account holders or their spouses, direct ancestors, and direct descendants (in the case of individuals) or by duly designated agents (in the case of corporations) with no limits on the amount; and for paying duties and taxes due in Morocco by account holders. Furthermore, the original holders of convertible term accounts may freely transfer funds from their accounts to resi- dent or nonresident foreigners or to nonresident Moroccan nationals. The above-mentioned pur- chasers may use the funds (1) to cover all dirham expenses incurred in Morocco by foreign film pro- duction companies for shooting films in Morocco; (2) to purchase secondary residences (provided they are located in a tourist development area for the buyers' personal use); (3) to finance up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 MOROCCO 50 percent of capital increases of subsidiaries of foreign corporations established in Morocco, provided that the rest is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad; and (4) to par- tially finance investment operations in Morocco in all sectors, regardless of the form of investment (in this case, financing of investment with debiting of convertible term account is allowed to cover only up to 50 percent of the investment, provided that the remaining 50 percent is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad). External financing operations by Moroccan enter- prises in respect of external credit facilities, pur- chaser or supplier credits, export financing credits, advances on partnership current accounts, and refi- nancing operations have been liberalized. Author- ity has been delegated to the banks to remit maturities due under these financing operations in principal, interest, and any applicable charges. Transfers of capital by foreigners leaving the country permanently are limited to DH 25,000 for each year spent in Morocco. Moroccan nationals residing in the country and corporations established in Morocco may invest abroad with the authorization of the Exchange Of- fice. However, they are required to remit the in- come generated by their investments and, as appropriate, the proceeds from liquidation of their investments. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Direc- torate of Customs and Indirect Taxes Administra- tion. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial us- ers of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments May 10. Importers were allowed to change the bank with which their import documents are domi- ciled if an import transaction is finally settled by means other than a documentary credit or any other commitment of said bank in connection with the import transaction in question. July 19. Goods imported free of customs duty un- der the commercial or tariff agreements as well as stationary diesel engines intended for agriculture and new tour buses were allowed to be imported pursuant to an import commitment (engagement d'importation) signed directly with authorized banks. July 27. A list of goods subject to quantitative im- port restrictions was published. November 16. The tariffs on 500 consumer goods not produced in Morocco were reduced to 5 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds February 24. Nonresident foreigners exporting goods of Moroccan origin valued at DH 50,000 or less and bought with dirhams during visits to Mo- rocco were exempted from the requirement to sign export documentation. July 25. A list of goods subject to quantitative ex- port restrictions was published. October 7. Formalities relating to certain exports by individuals or legal persons not included in the registry of commerce, as well as certain exports on consignment, and exports involving no payment and on a noncommercial basis were liberalized. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments February 7. The following timetable was an- nounced for liberalization of exports of unrefined sugar (January 1,1995), refined sugar and products derived therefrom (February 1, 1995), oilseeds (March 1,1995), cereals and products derived there- from (April 1, 1995), unrefined oils and filterpress cake (May 1, 1995), and refined oils and products derived therefrom (June 1,1995). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), the external value of which is deter- mined by supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. On December 31,1994, the aver- age exchange rate of the metical of the central bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 6,497.00 per US$1, and the average exchange rate of the metical in the secondary market in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 6,618.00 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares an- nually, in consultation with the Ministries of Fi- nance, Commerce, and Cooperation, as well as with the Bank of Mozambique (BM), a global foreign ex- change budget for the following year as part of the Government's Economic and Social Program. Im- ports and exports are authorized through licenses issued for statistical purposes by the Ministry of Commerce. Invisible transactions are controlled by the Ministry of Finance. All five commercial banks—the Banco Commercial de Mozambique (BCM), Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique (BSTM), Banco de Fomonto e Exterior (BFE), and Banco Por- tugues do Atlantico (BPA)—are licensed to operate in the foreign exchange market. Thirteen financial institutions—SOCIEF, SAFRIQUE, LUSOGLOBO, PROIN- VEST, AFZAL, CAMBIOS, ALKIS, MACROLPULOS, EX- CHANGE HOUSE, LUNAT, MIAMI TRAVEL AND TOURS, MOCAMBIOS, and NATAIR —are licensed to operate in the secondary exchange market. Prescription of Currency Mozambique maintains a bilateral clearing agree- ment with Tanzania, but transactions under it have been suspended. It also maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe, but these relate to the use of national currencies for border trade. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Foreigners residing in Mozambique may open ac- counts denominated in foreign exchange at the BCM, the BPD, the BSTM, the BFE, and the BPA. They may also open domestic currency accounts in the same banks, but transfers of such funds abroad require proof that the amounts originated in foreign currency. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific purposes based on their legitimate interests in Mozambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the relevant authorities. Withdrawals may be made for payments of taxes, certain types of debt (fees and obligations to the Government, government agencies, credit institutions, and insurance compa- nies, provided that such debts are properly veri- fied); family maintenance and expenses incurred by the account holders while visiting the country; and other payments for which authorization is obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports exceeding the equivalent of $500 are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are provided routinely. The license speci- fies, among other things, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the goods, the amount and currency of payment, and the source of financing. A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' re- quirements are met, the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs reviews import requests. Tied import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. Individuals may import goods up to the equivalent of $500 without an import li- cense if the goods are financed with their own for- eign exchange resources and tied-aid funds are not involved. Preshipment inspection is required for all imports in excess of $5,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the five commercial banks upon presentation of authoriza- tion granted by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Individuals are permitted to buy foreign exchange up to certain limits to pay expenses asso- 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 MOZAMBIQUE dated with travel remittances for education and for medical treatment. An annual ceiling equivalent to $4,000 is applied to most travelers. Remittances for education abroad are subject to a monthly ceiling equivalent to $500, and remittances for health- related expenses abroad are subject to an annual ceiling of $4,000. Each ministry is subject to a ceiling on foreign exchange for official business and educa- tional travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employ- ment contracts. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the amount they declared on entry. Exports and re-imports of domestic currency are prohibited. An airport fee equivalent to $10-$20 in foreign currency is levied by the airport authorities on international departures, depending on the destination. Remittances of profit and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a license. All export pro- ceeds must be collected through the five commer- cial banks and may be sold in the secondary exchange market. In mid-1994, exports of cashew nuts were banned. On December 31, 1994, the ex- port duty of 0.5 percent was suspended for a period of five years. Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other financial institu- tions may hold a limited amount of foreign ex- change. Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifi- cally, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the BM and convert them into meticais. Capital The Government and the BM are authorized to borrow abroad. Public and private enterprises are also allowed to borrow abroad, provided that loans are guaranteed by the BM. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. The Foreign Direct Investment Law, approved on June 8,1995, aims to encourage foreign investments owned fully by for- eign interests or jointly with Mozambican enter- prises. The law guarantees investors the right to repatriate capital and transfer abroad a portion of profits. The incentives for foreign investments in- clude tax and customs exemptions for specified pe- riods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree No. 11/81 of July 25,1981. The BM is responsible for enforcing this decree. The impor- tation of gold and other precious metals is gov- erned by special regulations. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The exportation of unprocessed cashew nuts was banned. September 1. Export procedures, including export authorization (registo de venda), were simplified, and a uniform export duty rate of 0.5 percent was introduced. (On December 31, 1994, this duty was suspended for five years.) Capital June 8. A new investment law was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Iranian rial, the Nepalese rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee). On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 5.8445 and K 5.9614, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malay- sian ringgit, the Netherlands guilder, and the Sin- gapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and the buying and selling rates for other curren- cies are based on the appropriate cross rates pub- lished in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. Since February 1993, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) have been issued by the Central Bank of My- anmar through authorized dealers and licensed FEC changers. An unofficial parallel market for for- eign exchange also exists. The rates in this market have been relatively stable for the past two years. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of not only visitors coming to Myanmar but also investors in Myanmar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bilateral trade arrangements have been ne- gotiated with neighboring countries; these arrange- ments do not provide for the extension of credit. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank in accordance with instructions from the Min- istry of Finance and Revenue. A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minis- ter allocates foreign exchange for the public sector. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments for the debt service of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in the currency of the member country through the ACU mechanisms. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an external account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an external account in Myanmar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in kyats held by nonresidents are desig- nated nonresident accounts; all debits and credits require prior authorization. Foreign currency ac- counts of foreign diplomatic missions and interna- tional organizations and their home-based personnel may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank or the Myanma Investment and Com- mercial Bank. Other foreign residents may open for- eign currency accounts with any bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Transfers of funds be- tween these accounts are permitted. Both residents and nonresidents are allowed to purchase FECs with foreign exchange earned from legal sources and may open foreign currency accounts subject to a 10 percent bank charge. In addition to the use of FECs, the following reg- ulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts by residents: Foreign currency accounts of national firms. Private exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade may retain 100 percent of their merchandise export proceeds. Also for border trade, exporters are allowed to retain 100 percent of their earnings. However, 5 percent and 10 percent of proceeds from exports of goods and services and receipts from remittances must be paid as commercial tax and income tax, respectively. Exporters may open foreign currency accounts with their earnings at ei- ther the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank, or private do- mestic banks, which are permitted to conduct for- eign exchange business. Account holders are 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 MYANMAR allowed to import under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of letters of credit or on a collection basis. Foreign currency accounts of national individuals. The following individuals are allowed to open for- eign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar nationals re- turning from abroad after completing their assignments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myanmar seamen working with foreign ship- ping lines under existing regulations; (4) Myanmar nationals working with the United Nations and its affiliated organizations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myanmar na- tionals receiving pensions in foreign currency after serving with foreign governments or international organizations; (7) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign exchange for services rendered to foreign indi- viduals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) Myanmar nationals receiving their pay in foreign currency abroad for services rendered as agents to foreign firms; (9) Myanmar nationals receiving rentals in foreign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency from an inher- itance; (11) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in compensation from a foreign firm or in- surance company for the death or disability of a family member while serving with a foreign firm; (12) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in the form of gifts from relatives or friends living abroad; and (13) Myanmar nationals holding the equivalent of at least $100 in FECs. A foreign currency account may be opened in U.S. dollars only. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to pur- chase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examina- tion fees for their children, and for medical treat- ment abroad. Transfers of balances between accounts are permitted. Foreign currency accounts of joint ventures and for- eign participants. Under the Union of Myanmar For- eign Investment Law enacted on November 30, 1988, economic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Com- mission (MIC) and foreigners employed by these economic organizations are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. The following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Central Bank: (1) foreign currency belonging to the person who brought in foreign capital for investment in Myan- mar in accordance with regulations stipulated by the MIC; (2) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the an- nual profits received by the person who brought in foreign capital; and (3) balances of salary and law- ful income earned by the foreign person for services performed in the state and remaining after payment of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him or her and family members. Imports and Import Payments Import trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. There are currently 22 bands of import tariffs, ranging from zero to 500 percent. Import tariffs are assessed on the basis of the official exchange rate. Agricultural implements, raw mate- rials, and other essential imports are taxed at very low rates, while the highest rate is applied to luxury items. There is a long list of exemptions from cus- toms duties, and the Ministry of Finance and Reve- nue is empowered to grant exemptions on a case- by-case basis. Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, may not be imported from any source. An import program for the public sector is pre- pared annually as part of the foreign exchange bud- get drawn up jointly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the Min- istry of Finance and Revenue. Some public sector imports are made outside the foreign exchange budget with revolving funds. All imports involving use of official foreign exchange are handled by the public sector through the ministries. With a few ex- ceptions, private sector imports require import li- censes for each transaction and are largely financed from the importer's foreign currency account. Im- port licenses may be obtained for priority items (List A), nonpriority items (List B), and "neutral" items. An importer wishing to import items on List B or neutral items is generally required to import goods on List A at a value equivalent to 50 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of the values of goods on List B and of neutral items. On a case-by-case ba- sis, joint ventures with private interest may be granted open general licenses and are exempt from these requirements. Private importers must register at the Ministry of Trade as importers and renew their licenses annually. State economic enterprises may import goods for their own use and for resale with open general licenses, whereas government departments may import only for their own use. Imports by government departments are exempted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 343 from prescribed fees but those by the private sector are not. Most imports are effected on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or char- tered by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line whenever possible. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank, the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank, and private domestic banks per- mitted to conduct foreign exchange business. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange di- rectly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, within the approved foreign exchange budget, after receiv- ing endorsement from the respective ministries. Border imports require permits. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds from border exports. Exporters of agricul- tural, forestry, and fisheries products are encour- aged to import up to the equivalent of 25 percent of the export value of selected items that will contrib- ute to the production in these sectors (Ministry of Trade Press Communique No. 5/91, dated July 12, 1991). Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make unlimited payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under official permits who have not yet opened for- eign currency accounts may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Myanmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to approval and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees and tuition abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals require prior permis- sion from the Central Bank. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government; the limit is one- half of the net salary if the spouse is living abroad and one-third of the net salary if the spouse is living in Myanmar. Outward remittances of insurance premium payments other than for Myanma Insur- ance are not permitted. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees is per- mitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Residents who have been granted an official per- mit to travel abroad are allowed to exchange $50 from the state's foreign exchange with their own domestic currency and also the equivalent of K100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of for- eign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained through conversion of foreign currency, including FECs. The exportation of Myanmar cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except those under UN em- bargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplo- matic relations. Export taxes are levied on a small number of goods at both ad valorem and specific rates: an ad valorem duty rate of 5 percent is levied on oil cakes, pulses and cereals, and raw hides and skins; a specific duty rate of 10 kyats a metric ton is levied on all varieties of rice. In practice, state agencies responsible for produc- tion may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. The state eco- nomic enterprises have a monopoly on the exporta- tion of rice, teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. The exporta- tion of these products and other controlled items by foreign or domestic firms in the private sector may be permitted. Rice is exported by the Myanma Ag- ricultural Produce Trading through the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooper- atives are also permitted to export a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers un- der valid export permits issued by the Ministry of Trade. Border trade of certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Export proceeds must be obtained in accordance with existing foreign exchange management regu- lations. An export-retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign exchange pro- ceeds from merchandise exports and 90 percent of proceeds from most invisible exports may be re- tained by exporters. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports made on a c.i.f. basis must be shipped by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 MYANMAR the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Ten percent of exchange receipts from invisibles must be paid as income tax unless the exchange control authorities grant a special waiver. Travelers may bring in foreign currency up to $2,000 or its equivalent without any declaration. Tourists arriv- ing in Myanmar are required to purchase foreign exchange certificates equivalent to a minimum value of $300, but amounts in excess of this mini- mum may be reconverted into foreign exchange at departure. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permis- sion from the Government are required to pay an income tax at the rate of 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Myanmar seamen serving abroad and Myanmar nationals working abroad under their own arrangements must pay as income tax 10 percent of their gross earnings. My- anmar nationals working abroad in UN organiza- tions are not required to pay income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign ex- change through embassies in their country of residence. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30, 1988, by the Union of Myanmar State Law and Order Restora- tion Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from foreigners for full ownership and under joint venture, with the share of foreign capi- tal representing at least 35 percent of the total capi- tal. To facilitate and promote foreign investment, the commission may grant exemption from cus- toms duties and other internal taxes on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw mate- rials imported for the first three years of commer- cial production, as well as exemption from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years, including the year when production of goods and services began, or for longer than three years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be na- tionalized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. In accordance with existing rules and regulations, repatriation of profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and pre- scribed funds. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Im- ports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declara- tion at the port of arrival. Personal jewelry of pre- scribed value is permitted to be taken out, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be brought back to the country. No conditions are attached, how- ever, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The minimum amount of FECs that tour- ists are required to purchase was raised from the equivalent of $200 to the equivalent of $300. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Exchange Control Territory The currency of Namibia is the Namibia Dollar. The Namibia dollar is pegged at par to the South African rand, which is also legal tender. The ex- change rates of the Namibia dollar against other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. On Decem- ber 31,1994, the exchange rate of the Namibia dol- lar against the U.S. dollar was N$l per US$0.2821. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct spot and forward exchange operations, including for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade trans- actions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresi- dents subject to certain limitations. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transac- tions involving Namibia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the two currencies. Special forward cover at preferential rates is pro- vided in respect of import financing. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward antici- pated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Under the financial rand system of the Common Monetary Area (CMA)—a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Af- rica, and Swaziland—local sales and redemption proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved out- ward capital transfers by residents are not allowed to be transferred in foreign currency but must be re- tained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely determined exchange rate, and the exchange rate for the financial rand is usually discounted from the commercial rand rate. These balances may be used to purchase securities (quoted and un- quoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain properties. Namibia is part of the CMA. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. In its rela- tions with countries outside the CMA, Namibia ap- plies exchange controls that are almost identical to those applied by the other CMA members. Administration of Control The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Import and export permits, where required, are is- sued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The au- thorized dealers automatically provide foreign exchange for imports from outside the Southern Af- rican Customs Union (SACU)1 upon presentation of the necessary documents. Advance payments for imports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of nonresidents2 are divided into non- resident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emi- grant blocked accounts. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in confor- mity with South Africa's import regulations. For purposes of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is currently enforced. These permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a per- mit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain im- lrThe members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 2A nonresident is a person (that is, a natural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the CMA. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NAMIBIA ports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU, and, under certain conditions, from countries within the SACU. A wide range of imports from countries out- side the SACU is subject to a general sales tax of 11 percent (as are locally produced goods) and to surcharges ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits, as follows: (1) annual allowances for tourist travel of N$19,000 for an adult and N$9,500 for a child under 12 years (basic annual allowances for travel to the neighboring countries—Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—are N$6,000 for an adult and N$3,000 for a child under 12 years); and (2) busi- ness travel allowances of not more than N$l,800 a day, with a maximum of N$28,000 in a calendar year (to the neighboring countries mentioned above, allowances may not exceed N$900 a day and N$12,000 a year). Residents leaving Namibia for destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take the full applicable allowance in any form. The ex- change control authorities may grant a larger amount if petitioned. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for education and family mainte- nance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license. All export proceeds are normally required to be remit- ted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of shipment or within seven days of the date of ac- crual. In order to enforce the repatriation require- ment, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless ex- emption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$500 in Namibian banknotes or R 500 in South African banknotes. There are no lim- itations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital transfers to and from destinations out- side the CMA in the form of loans are subject to specific approval from the Bank of Namibia. Ap- proval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the fi- nancing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries out- side the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expan- sion of existing projects owned or controlled by res- idents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity invest- ments by nonresidents are transferable only through the medium of financial rand. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to purchase farms and resi- dential properties with financial rand. Families emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to N$200,000 (N$100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account; the bal- ance, including earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. At the time of their ar- rival, immigrants are required to furnish the ex- change control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities. Any foreign as- sets they transfer to the CMA may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first five years of their arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for numismatic and investment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The official exchange rate is determined, in practice, by linking it closely to the Indian rupee (NRs 1.6 per Rs 1 at the end of 1994), with cross rates against other currencies determined by commercial banks on the basis of demand and supply. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were NRs 49.64 and NRs 50.12, respectively, per US$1.1 Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian ru- pee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. Purchases of Indian cur- rency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be documented, and the purpose must be specified. Forward ex- change cover for trade transactions is available and is provided only by authorized banks. Nepal formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 30,1994. Administration of Control Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the procedures pre- scribed by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). All ex- change transactions must be settled through authorized dealers (the Himalayan Bank, Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grindlay's Bank, Nepal Indosuez Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, and the Rastriya Banijya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Prescription of Currency All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (i.e., Bangladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myan- lrThe exchange rate system was unified in February 1993. Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. In addi- tion, buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Saudi Ara- bian riyals, and Swedish kronor. mar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in U.S. dollars; other im- ports and proceeds from exports to India must be set- tled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars and are free to deter- mine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Eligibility for opening such accounts is limited, however, to (1) Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months; (2) international organiza- tions and foreign nationals; (3) Bhutanese and In- dian citizens residing in countries other than Bhutan and India; and (4) exporters who are allowed to de- posit up to 100 percent of export earnings in a for- eign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum of $500 (or the equivalent in another cur- rency), and time deposits with a minimum of $3,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents may withdraw their deposits at any time and convert them into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals working in projects financed with foreign-donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agreements with the Govern- ment, and nonresidents may freely open foreign cur- rency accounts with Nepalese banks. Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances on these accounts may be freely trans- ferred abroad. Nonresidents who receive or bring into Nepal foreign currencies, which they convert into Nepalese rupees and deposit with a Nepalese bank, may reconvert them for transfer out of the country, subject to the prior approval of the NRB. Imports and Import Payments Most private sector imports are allowed under open general licenses (OGL). However, imports of certain items, such as arms, ammunition, wireless 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 NEPAL transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules), require special permission from the Government. Silver is mostly imported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handicraft-exporting industries through the commercial banks. However, since March 1994, imports of silver up to 150 kilograms have been allowed for those who have stayed abroad more than one month and have an official source of foreign exchange earnings. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are al- lowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of cus- toms duties and sales taxes. Those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed additional imports with proper documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, pro- vided that applications for foreign exchange are supported by documentary proof of need and the amounts are reasonable. Nepalese and Indian cur- rencies may not be exported to countries other than India, and they may be taken to India only by Ne- palese and Indian nationals. Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they bring in; however, nonresidents other than Indian .nationals may not take out Ne- palese or Indian banknotes. Since April 1993, Ne- palese travelers and migrant workers are allowed to take out of the country the equivalent of $1,500 a year. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 180 days of receipt but are not required to be sur- rendered. Exports valued at more than $1,000 to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit or advance payments by foreign banks. Exports of items having archaeologi- cal and religious importance and certain other ex- ports, including old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials, are prohibited. The re-exportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re-exportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota that in- creases annually by 6 percent. Import duties paid by exporters on goods from bonded warehouses are refunded. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is depos- ited in an escrow bank account and is released when the garments made from these imports are exported and the documentation required to verify the use of imports is provided. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of the for- eign currency they exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f .o.b. value of products spec- ified by the Government to all individuals and in- stitutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circum- stances beyond the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Nepalese and Indian currencies may be brought in only from India and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank- notes. Residents and nonresidents may freely bring in other foreign banknotes but must declare them if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000. Capital Repatriation of capital requires prior approval from the NRB; approval is automatically granted, provided capital transfers have been cleared by the Industrial Promotion Board. Nepalese citizens, whether they reside in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any banking or financial in- stitution incorporated in Nepal. All foreign direct investment in Nepal requires prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Industrial Promotion Board. Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guarantee are eligible to make remittances abroad for the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, divi- dends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and com- pensations on acquired assets. The Industrial Enter- prises Act contains provisions regarding local equity requirements for foreign investment in enterprises. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related industries unless substantial transfers of technology are involved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 349 Foreign investors can hold 100 percent equity in large- and medium-scale industries. Small-scale in- dustries are defined as those with fixed assets val- ued at up to NRs 10 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is NRs 50 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 50 mil- lion are considered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Since March 1993, im- ports of gold up to 10 kilograms have been allowed for those who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an official source of foreign earnings. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 30. Nepal formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ire- land, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain in the ex- change rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accor- dance with this agreement, the Netherlands main- tains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs). Un- der the special bilateral agreement, the spot ex- change rate of the Netherlands guilder and the deutsche mark is maintained within a fluctuation band of ±2.25 percent. The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1994, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per. 100 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Austrian schillings Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Portuguese escudos2 Spanish pesetas3 Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 18.59630 13.79180 6.34340 34.30020 115.23500 39.00910 3.15450 1.32266 1.65368 4.70454 25.43850 110.16750 28.93810 2.33952 0.98094 1.22644 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. On occasion, they can intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On December 30,1994, the mid- Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1,1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 1.27637 and 0.84661, respectively. 3Effective March 6, 1995, the upper and lower limits were changed to 1.63793 and 1.14050, respectively. die rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.7351 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and nonconvertible cur- rencies, both spot and forward, at negotiated rates. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transac- tion required. Residents and nonresidents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency accounts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls, except for the re- porting requirements (in accordance with the Exter- nal Financial Relations Act of 1994). Import and export licensing, including transit trade,4 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency and the dele- gated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations of the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Residents are generally required to supply information on their payments to and receipts from nonresidents to the Nether- lands Bank either through credit institutions or other providers of financial services who act as in- termediaries, or directly in cases where residents do not use the services of the financial institutions within the scope of the regulations based on the Ex- ternal Financial Relations Act of 1994 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations gov- ern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank ac- counts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. Such ac- counts must be declared to the Netherlands Bank, ^he only transit trade transactions still subject to specific li- cense are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 351 and entries in them must be reported to the Bank in accordance with relevant regulations. In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are im- posed on financial transactions with Iraq, the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the con- trol of Bosnian Serb forces. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and areas of the Re- public of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries,5 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are re- quired for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quanti- tative restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries have been formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Union (EU) coun- tries of most products covered by the Common Ag- ricultural Policy of the EU are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to im- ports; common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the ^tate trading countries are defined for this purpose as consist- ing of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. relevant exchange control regulations (i.e., transfers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic banknotes and coins or docu- ments of value. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins that they have imported or obtained in the Netherlands by draw- ing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia/Montenegro), and areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Certain exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are also prohibited. Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of nonprohibited exports. There is no repatration sur- render requirement for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign banknotes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are not restricted, except that they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1994. External capital transactions are unrestricted. For direct investment in the form of capital participation (inward and outward), no license is required. Nei- ther short-term lending (for less than two years) nor long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affili- ated companies or others) requires a license. Since ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 NETHERLANDS May 20,1994, the existing regime requiring that lead managers of issues of bearer paper denominated in guilders must be registered in credit institutions in the Netherlands and that issues of such paper must be reported at least one working day before an- nouncement in the market has been abolished. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market ex- change rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eu- roguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their se- curities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; se- curities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and do- mestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may have their total assets in the Netherlands remitted to them upon departure. Nonresidents inheriting from es- tates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However, for prudential reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign cur- rency and precious metals. Banks are required to re- port to the Netherlands Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be re- ported to the Netherlands Bank. Total amounts of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank ac- count, by the resident parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Banks and nonbank residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange li- censes or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value- added tax of 6 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at the standard value-added tax rate of 17.5 percent. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at N Af 1.7900 per US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1994 were NA f 1.77 per US$1 for banknotes and NA f 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f 1.80 per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign ex- change tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents.2 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Finance issues import licenses, where required. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All pay- ments made by residents to nonresidents and re- ceipts through authorized banks, as well as through banks abroad, must be reported to the central bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands An- tillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without the approval of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports whose delivery dates exceed payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the central bank. The importation of 42 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is subject to tariffs ranging from 25 percent to 90 percent. Cer- tain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and re- mittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The ex- portation of Netherlands Antillean banknotes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require no licenses. Export proceeds must be repatriated but need not be surrendered. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the cen- tral bank. Nonresident Accounts Proceeds from Invisibles Nonresidents may freely open nonresident ac- counts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are 1Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European Currency Units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guil- der are considered foreign currencies. 2Payments by certain entities, for example international com- panies and pension funds, are exempted from the foreign ex- change tax. Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or banknotes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to res- idents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Investments by residents in real estate abroad, as well as capital loans to nonresi- dents, require a license. Investment and disinvest- ment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antilles do not require a license. In- vestment by residents in officially listed foreign se- curities (and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted) is permitted free of license up to N A f. 100,000 a year. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank ac- counts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are al- lowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subject to limits set by the central bank and must always be positive and in currencies consid- ered "freely usable," as defined under Article XXX(f) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar, the external value of which is deter- mined by demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, however, retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market and may signal its desired exchange rate range. Foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. On December 31, 1994, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$ 0.6415 and US$ 0.6420, respectively, per $NZ1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies at market-determined rates in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irre- spective of the source of the funds. On Augusts, 1982, New Zealand formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from control. Since February 1990, when ex- change controls were abolished, no authorization has been required to deal in foreign exchange. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, however, requires registered banks to report foreign exposure levels for prudential supervision purposes. The only re- maining requirements are for purposes of statistical information to assist Statistics of New Zealand. Prohibitions and restrictions are imposed on the trade of certain products, principally for reasons of human, plant, and animal health. Most of the re- strictions are conditional. The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, New Zealand notified the Fund on Septem- ber 6, 1990 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq, and similarly on September 30, 1992, in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia/Montenegro) in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency,1 as may payments to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain and operate ac- counts without formality and may repatriate funds without restriction. Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used to settle transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Most tariffs on industrial products were reduced by approximately one-half over the period July 1, 1988 to July 1,1992. The majority of the tariffs will be reduced by a further one-third between July 1, 1993 and July 1, 1996. The only tariffs over 20 per- cent apply to motor vehicles, tires and other motor vehicle components, and certain products (includ- ing textiles, clothing, footwear, and carpets). Most tariffs are ad valorem, but specific tariffs apply to some products (e.g., clothing) if they produce more revenue. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some seventy products or classes of products, pri- marily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA),2 foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2The islands under this arrangement constitute the South Pa- cific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand): Cook Is- lands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NEW ZEALAND imports of qualifying goods enter duty-free from Australia and the SPARTECA countries. In addition, under the ANZCERTA, antidumping remedies have been replaced by domestic laws regulating trade practices. Less comprehensive preferential trade arrange- ments affect specified imports from Canada, Malay- sia, and the United Kingdom. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the General- ized System of Preferences (GSP). Certain product areas are excluded from the coverage of the GSP (e.g., clothing, footwear, and motor vehicles). In most cases, these preferential rates are 80 percent of the normal tariff rates; in no case is the margin of preference less for developing countries. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classified by the United Nations as "least developed." Special safeguard mechanisms apply under the GSP: a developing country with a per capita GNP equal to or greater than 70 percent of New Zealand's loses its preferential status under the cri- terion of "country graduation," and a developing country loses its preference with respect to specific tariff items when minimum market share exceeds a minimum value under the criterion of "product graduation." Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving nationals of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), although there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. ANZCERTA also provides a framework for the lib- eralization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provides for free trade in services based on national treatment. All services are covered except for those on a negative list pre- pared by each government; the list includes certain aspects of telecommunications, aviation, coastal shipping, and postal services; Australia's list also in- cludes radio and television broadcasting and insur- ance, banking, and consultancy services. Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) need not be returned through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently re- stricted by quotas and other quantitative restric- tions imposed by its principal trading partners. For example, exports of lamb and butter to the Euro- pean Union and exports of beef and dairy products to the United States are subject to either quotas or voluntary export restraints. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided (or to be pro- vided) in New Zealand, by New Zealand residents, (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand), and on behalf of overseas residents as well as interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment, do not have to be repa- triated. ANZCERTA provides for liberalization of trade in services rendered by New Zealand resi- dents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as in- terest and dividends, is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas In- vestment Commission (QIC). Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company by purchasing or ex- changing shares are required to obtain the consent of the QIC in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. However, if the consideration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ 10 million, the company is exempt from this requirement. The $NZ 10 million level also triggers the need for QIC approval when a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company or establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply in the commercial fishing and rural land sectors deemed to be sensitive. The $NZ 10 million ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 357 trigger level does not apply to investments in these sectors. strictions or licensing requirements on the importa- tion and exportation of gold. Gold Changes During 1994 Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no re- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 32,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Cordoba. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: the offi- cial rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, is deval- ued daily at an annual rate of 12 percent; and the free exchange rate, which is determined through transactions of private exchange houses. In addi- tion, there is an unrecognized parallel market. Most export receipts, official receipts and payments, im- port payments, and direct investments are trans- acted in the official market, while the remaining transactions take place in the free market. On De- cember 31,1994, the buying and selling rates in the official market were C$7.11 and C$7.18, respec- tively, per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the free market were C$7.25 and C$7.35 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign- currency-denominated accounts and cordoba ac- counts with exchange guarantee (maintenance of value) contracts may be opened with commercial banks. Banks may also make loans denominated in foreign currency or in local currency with exchange guarantees. The Central Bank of Nicaragua charges a commission of 1 percent on sales of foreign exchange. Nicaragua formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 30,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized com- mercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank approves all foreign exchange transactions on the basis of pri- ority criteria that are established in accordance with sources of foreign exchange. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign ex- change may be effected through an authorized for- eign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Importers using their own foreign currency ac- counts are not required to go through the exchange approval process, nor are they expected to reveal the sources of their funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the Cen- tral Bank has the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily con- vertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Imports and Import Payments All importers effecting payments through the of- ficial market are required to be registered with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. This requirement is waived for individuals who im- port only occasionally for their own needs. Im- porter registration certificates are valid for five years. For individual imports, other than those financed from an individual's own foreign currency deposit account or with foreign exchange from the ex- change house market, a specific license is required from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Devel- opment, and registration is required at the Central Bank. In principle, general import licenses are valid for five years. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be settled in the official foreign exchange market (Central Bank and commercial banks). Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but most are made through letters of credit. In addition to customs duties, certain imports, ir- respective of origin, are subject to a specific con- sumption tax and to a customs fee. In addition, most commodities, whether imported or domesti- cally produced, are subject to a 15 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are effected in the official markets. Payments for other invisibles, such as travel, educational ex- penses, family maintenance, and medical expenses, take place through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except gold are free, requiring only registration (Registro Unico de Exportation) with the Central Bank. Exports of gold remain under the 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 359 control of the Central Bank. Export registration cer- tificates are valid for 30 days. An export license is required for the exportation of traditional products. Foreign exchange proceeds from traditional ex- ports must be received within 45 days of shipment and surrendered to an authorized bank within 2 workings days. Exporters who fail to surrender their proceeds will lose their export authorization. They may retain the proceeds from nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area in special accounts at a commercial bank and use the funds for import payment purposes. Ex- porters may use the proceeds from exports of ba- nanas, coconuts and coconut by-products, and copra through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya to pay for imports consumed in these areas. They may retain all pro- ceeds from exports from the free zone and 75 per- cent of proceeds from exports of seafood products to countries outside the Central American area in special accounts with a commercial bank. Funds in these accounts may be used only for import pay- ments; these exporters do not have access to the of- ficial foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the free market. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange persons arriving in Nicaragua from abroad may bring in and use locally. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. For servicing private exter- nal debt, authorization depends on the availability of foreign exchange. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in inter- national gold markets and may sell gold to domes- tic, industrial, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967,1975, and 1980. Nat- ural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement May 1. The Central Bank introduced a commis- sion of 1 percent on sales of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments May 2. The selective consumption tax (ISC) and the tax on luxury consumption (IBS) were abolished and replaced by a temporary tariff (applying to 750 import items) and a specific consumption tax (ap- plying to all products previously subject to the ISC and the IBS). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO does not levy a commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Transfers by banks to countries outside the WAMU are subject to an exchange commission of 2.5 percent of the amount of the transfer. All rev- enue from coiAmissions charged by the banks on transfers to countries outside the WAMU is trans- ferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions, the domiciliation of exports, and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover re- quires prior authorization from the Financial Rela- tions Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Such cover may be provided for pay- ments for permitted imports and for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, de- pending on the nature of the goods involved, and is not renewable. There is no official scheme for cur- rency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for ex- ternal debt servicing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. h'he CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, C6te d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 360 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Finan- cial Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the BCEAO, Postal Administration, or authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone are normally made through the West Af- rican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either in foreign cur- rencies through correspondent banks in France or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are subject to strict regula- tions, which stipulate authorized debit and credit operations. These accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue with an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury. Imports and Import Payments All import restrictions and prohibitions, includ- ing temporary measures affecting imports of certain products, and all remaining licensing requirements for imports, including imports on transit, were abolished by the end of August 1994. A customs tariff regime, introduced in September 1994, con- sists of three categories of products with ad valo- rem rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 30 percent. All import monopolies and quasi monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1, 1985, the Soci£t£ na- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 361 tionale de commerce et de production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the importation of specified commodities, includ- ing salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries with a c.i.f. value exceeding CFAF 25,000 at the border must be domiciled with an authorized bank. For- eign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Relations Directorate, which, for certain transactions, has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer savings from their salaries with the prior approval of the External Re- lations Directorate, but these transfers are normally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, if supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Residents traveling for tourist or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out the equivalent of up to CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than CFA franc banknotes; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corre- sponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (busi- ness travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and specifically au- thorized by the Minister of Finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are re- quired to declare all means of payment in their pos- session upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers proceeding to countries that are not members of the WAMU must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that these means of payment were purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of for- eign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank- notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products (livestock, leather and skins, onions, rice, and sugar) are subject to submission of a statistic registration certificate (FES) for statistical compilation and monitoring purposes. Exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destina- tion. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buy- ing country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports exceeding a value of CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Oper- ations Accounts may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or date of re- ceipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may im- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 NIGER port any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Ac- counts are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require approval from the ex- change control authority and are restricted, but cap- ital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward and outward in- vestment, and the issuance, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such opera- tions require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substi- tuted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate devel- opment operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. All the special provisions de- scribed in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance, 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made.3 The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration to re- quest postponement of the project. The full or par- tial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are those implying control of a com- pany or an enterprise; mere participation is not con- sidered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Lending abroad is also subject to prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total outstanding amount of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, the an- nual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the proceeds are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a foreign ac- count in francs. The repayment of a foreign loan constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct in- vestment; the repayment of other loans requires au- thorization only if the loans were subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Invest- ment Code of July 31, 1988 and its amendments. The facilities granted under the previous Invest- ment Code have been maintained. In addition, the new Investment Code provides for regular or privi- leged treatment. Regular treatment provides assur- ances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax ex- emptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national eco- nomic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment Including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 363 may be accorded under two different regimes—the approval regime and the agreement regime. and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Ex- empt from this requirement are (1) imports and ex- ports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments August 10. All import licensing requirements and import restrictions were abolished. September 1. A customs tariff regime, consisting of three product categories with ad valorem rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 30 percent, was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of N21.9 per US$1. Foreign exchange is sold directly by Central Bank of Nigeria fortnightly to end users through designated banks, which act as agents of the Cen- tral Bank.1 The banks are allowed to collect only the normal charges and prescribed commissions. The Central Bank determines the allocation of foreign exchange on the basis of an allocation formula in which 50 percent of the foreign exchange resources go to manufacturing imports, 10 percent to agricul- tural imports, 20 percent to finished goods, and 10 percent to service payments. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to transact in foreign exchange banknotes at a rate 10 percent lower than the official exchange rate. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for remittances of profits and dividends; for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regulations. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Cen- tral Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized deal- ers must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for the transactions mentioned above. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. 1The frequency of allocation sessions was, however, effec- tively reduced to once every three weeks toward the end of the year. Authorized payments may be made in naira or in any foreign currency to an external account in Nige- ria. Settlements with the central banks of the mem- ber states of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearing House in West African Units of Account. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of resident and nonres- ident accounts: external accounts, nonresident ac- counts, and blocked accounts. External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and international organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by resi- dents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds de- rived from local sources may be deposited in non- resident accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, pro- vided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are ef- fected. Blocked accounts are accounts to which funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act are credited. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required. The importation of the following products is prohibited: poultry, eggs, vegetables, processed wood, fresh or pre- served fruit, fruit juices, mosquito repellant oils, textile fabrics, plastic domestic articles, beer, rice and rice products, mineral water, soft drinks, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at the equivalent of $1,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the government, are subject to preshipment inspection to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 365 product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty.2 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been is- sued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed let- ters of credit is made by the overseas correspon- dents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas corre- spondents. However, such payment is made on the understanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for imports cov- ered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submit- ted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspon- dent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the autho- rized dealer. Payments for Invisibles Persons needing foreign exchange to make invisi- ble payments must submit applications to the Central Bank through designated banks. Basic allowances are provided for some payments. As with imports, verifi- cation is on an ex post basis—that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documenta- tion obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equiva- lent of $500 a year, and for business travel, the equiv- alent of $5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental ex- penses in foreign currency from travelers to Nige- ria, who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. However, when there is documentary evidence that an ade- quate amount of foreign currency has been ex- changed into local currency at any licensed bank or bureau de change, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by foreign visi- tors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatriate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax 2The following items are exempt from the inspection require- ment: gold; precious stones; works of art; explosives and pyro- technic products; ammunition; implements of war; live animals; scrap metals; household and personal effects, including used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and re- fined petroleum products. are considered by authorized dealers subject to doc- umentation requirements. Final balance applica- tions involving the transfer of accumulated savings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expa- triate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of do- mestic currency in excess of N100 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohib- ited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of timber (processed and unprocessed), raw hides and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yam, and all imported food items are prohibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. All proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors are required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be received through the Central Bank or designated banks and surrendered to the Central Bank. The importation of domestic currency in excess of N100 is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are ap- proved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Development subject to satisfactory doc- umentation. Except for the purpose of financing im- ports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, com- pany, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state- controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrow- ing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresi- dent individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned un- der (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, li- censed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 NIGERIA may increase the amount of any advance or over- draft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or ex- ports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresi- dents intending to make direct investments in Ni- geria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Remittable dividends may be rein- vested without the requirement that matching capi- tal must be imported. However, the granting of approved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, bank credit, or lo- cally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee deals with all matters relating to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through authorized foreign exchange dealers, are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to documentation re- quirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the Foreign Exchange Market (FEM). In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt-conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Con- version Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt in- struments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commercial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instru- ments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt-conversion provisions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes or other debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion, provided that the foreign ex- change used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange pur- chases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a gift or grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) con- version for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and deter- mines eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are the follow- ing: (1) interest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with ap- proved projects under the DCP may not be repatri- ated for a minimum period of five years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual in- vestment or five years after such profits or divi- dends are made or paid, whichever is later; (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective investment of the proceeds; (3) repa- triation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Fi- nance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 367 and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific li- censes issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the importation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 26. Foreign exchange bureaus were pro- hibited from selling foreign exchange; they were al- lowed to purchase foreign exchange only from their clients as agents of the Central Bank at the official exchange rate and are required to surrender the proceeds to the Central Bank. February 4. The Central Bank issued guidelines for the allocation of foreign exchange directly to end-users through the banks designated as their agents. Authorized dealers were prohibited from conducting foreign exchange transactions directly with their clients for their own account and were al- lowed to collect only the normal charges and pre- scribed commissions. February 17. The Central Bank resumed foreign exchange sales. September 16. Foreign exchange bureaus were al- lowed to buy and sell foreign exchange banknotes at a margin of 10 percent above the official rate. Imports and Import Payments February 4. Unutilized foreign exchange that was allocated to importers was required to be surren- dered to the Central Bank within one month. All import payments exceeding $1,000 were required to be made under letters of credit supported by the Import Duty Report (IDR) and Clean Report of Findings (CRF) issued by the customs office. Payments for Invisibles February 4. End-users were required to apply for a foreign exchange allocation through designated banks. Payments for invisibles were allocated 10 percent of the total amount of the application once every two weeks. Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports by private and public sectors were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles February 4. All foreign exchange proceeds from services by private and public sectors were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The Norwegian authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market. However, the Bank of Norway may intervene from time to time to maintain stability in the market. The Bank of Norway quotes daily the exchange rate of the krone against 19 other curren- cies1 and the European currency unit (ECU) for in- formation purposes on the basis of the market rates. On December 31, 1994, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was Nkr 7.518 per US$1. Residents (Norwegian companies and private in- dividuals) may freely enter into forward and inter- est rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 11,1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Norway in cooperation with the Ministry of Fi- nance and Customs. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of For- eign Affairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Norway notified the Fund on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro); these restrictions have been reinforced in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 820 (1993). Restrictions have also been imposed on financial transactions with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (in accordance with UN Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Icelandic kr6na, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Security Council Resolution No. 748/92), with the Islamic Republic of Iran (in accordance with the UN Security Council Resolution No. 670/90), and with the areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzego- vina that are controlled by the Bosnian Serbs (in ac- cordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942/94). Restrictions were imposed on financial transactions with Haiti (in accordance with UN Se- curity Council Resolutions No. 873/93, No. 841/93, and No. 917/94). These sanctions were subse- quently lifted with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944/94. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kro- ner, in convertible krone accounts (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, below). Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may also open foreign exchange ac- counts at domestic banks without restriction. The main type of nonresident account is the convertible krone account. Such accounts may be held by resi- dents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other convertible krone accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of con- vertible currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other convertible krone ac- counts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents without restriction. Both convertible krone accounts and foreign exchange accounts must be reported to the Bank of Norway.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports of industrial goods do not require an im- port license, but all imports from Iraq, from the So- cialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro), and from areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by the Bosnian 2Residents may also open foreign exchange accounts at do- mestic banks without restriction. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 369 Serbs are prohibited. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance pur- poses. Following Norway's accession to the previ- ous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1,1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements, which have been con- cluded with 19 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into under the current MFA are consider- ably more liberal than those that Norway had un- der the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. With these ex- ceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are re- stricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits. These quotas apply to all countries, and, for some of these products, import restrictions are imposed only seasonally. New and secondhand ships and certain categories of fishing vessels may be im- ported freely. The importation of radio remittance equipment, such as radio controls, is subject to ap- proval by the Directorate of Telecommunications in respect of frequency. The importation of a small number of goods is prohibited for health and simi- lar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alco- holic beverages, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the types of payments a person (resident or nonresident) may take out of Norway, but banknotes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and foreign) must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any coun- try against a declaration or a license. Exports to Iraq and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are prohibited. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are con- trolled by the Bosnian Serbs are also prohibited, with the exception of medical supplies and certain food items. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports to any country valued at not more than Nkr 2,000 are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammu- nition, this limit is Nkr 500, and for fish and fish products, Nkr 1,000. Export proceeds need not be repatriated to Norway. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign ex- change a person (resident or nonresident) may bring into Norway, but banknotes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and for- eign) must be reported to the customs authorities. Capital Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct investments in the form of shares that are not normally traded in a European Economic Area (EEA) country must, however, be made through Norwegian stockbrokers. Securities subject to the stockbroker requirement that are kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbro- ker. The stockbroker and deposit requirements will not apply if documentation of proof can be pro- vided that the security is subject to regulatory and supervisory arrangements equivalent to EEA stan- dards. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated financial institutions, insurance companies, and stockbrokers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. Foreign exchange banks are also exempted when dealing on behalf of a resident. However, foreign exchange banks and financial in- stitutions subject to exposure regulation must sub- mit reports on their net foreign currency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in indi- vidual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institu- tions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of for- eign currency bonds, and residents are permitted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Purchases by residents of insurance services abroad, other than injury insurance, are prohibited if the insurance company is not registered in an EEA country. Non- residents may purchase Norwegian bonds and cer- tificates without restriction. There is no restriction ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 NORWAY on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jew- elry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent, except gold coins produced after Jan- uary 1,1967. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control May 27. Sanctions against Haiti were introduced in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 917/94. October 16. The sanctions against Haiti were lifted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944/94. December 2. Sanctions were imposed on those areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by the Bosnian Serbs, in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942/94. Capital January 14. As a result of the EEA agreement, the requirement that residents' investments in securi- ties have to be made through domestic stockbrokers and deposited with a domestic stockbroker or bank, was modified. Also modified was the prohibition against purchases by residents of insurance services abroad. April 29. Norwegian companies and branches of foreign companies established in accordance with rules laid down in the EEA agreement, that issue payment cards for use by residents abroad (or in Norway by nonresidents) were required to be regis- tered with Norges Bank and report transactions to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of Decemler 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 per US$2.6008. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1994, the rates were RO 1 per US$2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 per US$2.5974 (selling). The commercial bank rates for other cur- rencies are based on market rates in London. There are arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official and com- mercial banking sectors. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19,1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Oman notified the Fund, on January 27,1993, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, as is the use of their currencies. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia- (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the importation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addi- tion, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from im- porting specified products as long as domestic pro- duction is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for authorized im- ports may be obtained freely. The customs regime consists of five bands, and the rates range from 5 percent for most general goods to 100 percent on alcoholic beverages, pork, and limes. Customs duties are not levied on gov- ernment imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and food- stuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be dis- posed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Travel- ers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Invest- ment in business firms in Oman by foreign natural or juridical persons requires prior approval and is regulated by the Law for the Organization and En- couragement of Industry, which came into effect on January 15, 1979, and the Foreign Investment Law enacted in June 1983. Under the 1983 Foreign In- vestment Law, joint ventures are offered a five-year 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 OMAN tax holiday, renewable for an additional five years under certain conditions. The Oman Development Bank can provide me- dium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricul- tural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give as- sistance in preinvestment research. The direction of foreign capital to large production or manufacturing projects is encouraged. In addition, the Government provides loans at subsidized interest rates for those projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial production for exportation, industrial production using indigenous raw materi- als or labor, or the development of tourism. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Is- rael and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of February 28,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan sets the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in transactions with authorized dealers. On December 31,1994, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 30.800 and PRs 30.954, respec- tively, per US$1. All foreign exchange transactions with the public must be conducted through autho- rized dealers and money changers and effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calcula- tion of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.2 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the cur- rency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, ei- ther spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) for exports and imports effected under that arrange- ment. On June 22, 1994, the State Bank eliminated its foreign exchange risk cover for the private sec- tor's direct borrowings inclusive of suppliers' credit, Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE) loans, etc. Forward exchange cover for private foreign cur- rency deposits is provided by the State Bank, which charges an annual fee of 3 percent, 6 percent, 2.5 percent, and 4.75 percent, respectively, on de- posits in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. Residents and nonresidents may use foreign ex- change to purchase foreign currency bearer certifi- cates (FCBCs) with a maturity of up to five years denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. FCBCs are avail- able in various denominations (deutsche mark, from DM 100 to DM 100,000; Japanese yen, from ¥10,000 to ¥10 million; pounds sterling, from £100 to £50,000; and U.S. dollars/from $100 to $100,000). They may be freely brought into and taken out of the country, encashed at any time in Pakistan ru- pees or in foreign exchange at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the encashment, and used by residents to undertake any current or interna- tional capital transactions. FCBCs yield rates of re- turn related to market interest rates for each respective currency. Sales of bearer certificates de- nominated in U.S. dollars (DBCs) with a maturity of one year were discontinued on November 22,1994. Anyone was allowed to purchase them without re- vealing the source of foreign exchange and may en- cash the principal and accrued returns either in foreign exchange or in Pakistan rupees at the offi- cial rate. At the end of December 1994, the return on these certificates was 0.25 percent above LIBOR. Foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs) de- nominated in Pakistan rupees are available in de- nominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000; their face value is 14.5 percent higher one year after issuance, 31 percent higher after two years, 52 per- cent higher after three years, 74 percent higher after four years, 99 percent higher after five years, and 131 percent higher after six years. Pakistan formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1994. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for certain pur- poses within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Paki- stan, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Paki- stan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 PAKISTAN of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the ACU (Bangladesh, India, Islamic Repub- lic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions are effected through the ACU in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in afghanis. Payments between Pakistan and Israel are not permitted.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents of Pa- kistan are allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, and pro- ceeds from FEBCs and FCBCs, including DBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from ex- ports of goods and services; earnings from services of residents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistani firms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eu- rodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates range from 0.75 of 1 percent for three-month deposits to 1.625 percent for three-year deposits. Nonresident accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts.2 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior ap- proval of the State Bank when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresi- dent accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms, corporations, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such ac- counts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their ac- counts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistani nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign ex- change to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institu- tions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $5 million (or the equivalent in other curren- cies) for a maturity period of at least six months. Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. All items that do not appear on either the negative list or the list of items permitted to be imported subject to health and safety requirements may be freely imported. The negative list mainly consists of items banned for religious and health reasons, or to discourage consumption of luxury items, and goods banned in accordance with international agreements.3 The negative list of imports was shortened in July 1993 and again in July and December 1994. Some items on the negative list may be imported under certain circumstances, principally by export industries, public sector agencies, or under the per- sonal baggage scheme. Import licensing was elimi- nated in July 1993. The 6 percent import license fee was abolished on June 5,1994. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of 1 the restrictions on trade and payments with South Africa were lifted in July 1994. 2Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of in- dividuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the non- resident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ''Some of the currently prohibited imports fall outside these categories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Paki- stan and do not fit into the category of goods banned for reli- gious, health, or luxury consumption reasons). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 375 which are the following: (1) Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in Is- rael but shipped from other countries. Both the pri- vate and the public sectors may import 324 specified items or categories of goods directly from India. (2) Special provisions govern the importation by ex- port industries of items importable on fulfillment of conditions and of items on the negative list. Import payments may be made against irrevoca- ble letters of credit, provided that the letters do not stipulate payment of any amount by way of interest in the case of usance bills and, further, that in the case of books, journals, magazines, and periodicals, they stipulate payment on a sight draft or usance bills basis. Imports on a consignment basis are allowed by the State Bank of Pakistan. When the importers de- sire to import on a joint basis from any country ei- ther for the sake of their own convenience or economy, or because of the suppliers' inability to supply goods in small consignments, the importers may establish joint letters of credit. For imports un- der barters or any other special trading arrange- ment, the letters of credit may be opened within such a period as may be specified in the relevant public notice issued by the authorities. In case of im- ports under loans or credits, which require the con- tracts to be approved by the agencies of the Government of Pakistan, the importer shall open a letter of credit within 60 days of the date the contract is approved. In case of imports under suppliers' credit and the PAYE scheme, letters of credit may be opened only if the contract has been registered with the State Bank of Pakistan. Letters of credit are gen- erally established for up to 12 months, with the fol- lowing exceptions: ( l)when machinery and millwork must be specifically fabricated and the pe- riod of manufacture is more than 12 months, letters of credit shall be established with a validity period of up to 24 months; (2) for all items other than ma- chinery and millwork the period of 12 months may be extended for an additional 24 months on pay- ment of an additional fee of 0.25 percent of the un- used value of the letter of credit for each period of 6 months from the date of its expiry; (3) in the case of machinery, letters of credit may be extended for up to 24 months from the date of expiry of initial va- lidity on additional payment of 0.25 percent of the unused value of the letter of credit for each 6-month period; and (4) if the letters of credit are opened against loans, credits, barters, or special trading ar- rangements whereby shipment could not take place owing to circumstances beyond the control of the importer, revalidation may be allowed within the validity of the loan, credit, barter, or special trading arrangement without additional payment. Payment for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior ap- proval. Payments to Israel are not permitted. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that ac- corded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport in- surance must be taken out with insurance compa- nies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Paki- stani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton and cement, for which the maximum is 1 percent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, sur- gical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready- made garments and other textile made-ups, carpets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineer- ing goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33V5 percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The re- mittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and the airline business is permitted with- out restriction provided that the required documents are submitted to the State Bank. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax pur- poses by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Since August 30,1993, foreign exchange for pri- vate travel to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India is granted at the rate of $50 a day for up to 42 days during a cal- endar year on submission of travel documents to the authorized dealers. Requests for foreign ex- change in excess of these amounts are to be referred by the authorized dealers to the State Bank of Paki- stan giving justification for the additional amount. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer. The entitlement can be used in installments. Remittances for under- graduate and postgraduate studies abroad and cor- respondence courses are not restricted. Foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, ed- ucation, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tuition fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the State ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 PAKISTAN Bank. Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at $1,200 a month. Requests for foreign exchange in excess of $1,200 a month for profes- sional training must be referred to the State Bank duly accompanied by cogent reasons and support- ing documents. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services with an- nual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable business travel allowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FCBCs. The 5 percent advance tax on the value of foreign exchange purchased for travel was abol- ished on July 1, 1994. Foreigners may make family remittances to the extent of the difference between the net income of the applicant and his or her esti- mated expenses in Pakistan. In case the family of a resident Pakistani is temporarily living abroad for personal reasons, foreign exchange will be pro- vided upon bona fide request. Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Paki- stani nationals) may take out with them foreign cur- rency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities4 to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. How- ever, certain exports are subject to export quotas (e.g., maize, gram, split gram, and camels), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appli- ances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (e.g., onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation of Pa- kistan, Ltd. is responsible for the exportation of cot- ton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; Basmati and other types of rice are exported through the Rice Exportation Corporation of Paki- stan, Ltd., but private traders are also allowed. Ce- ment and sugar, which may be exported by public and private sector entities, are subject to a quota. 4Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (ex- cluding iron and steel manufactured goods), unprocessed edible oils, certain grains, certain dairy products, certain live animals, beef and mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cowhides and calfhides, char- coal, certain animal products, intoxicants, certain oil seeds, wooden crates, arms, ammunition, explosives, fissionable mate- rial, maps and charts, paper waste, unfinished hockey sticks and blades, human skeletons, certain imported goods, and antiques. Chemical fertilizers may also be exported by private sector units. Trade samples that may be exported without prior approval from the State Bank are lim- ited to the equivalent of $2,000; the limit for leather garments is 50 pieces, without a value limit. There are no quantitative or value ceilings if samples are damaged. The State Bank requires a declaration from the exporter that payment will be received in accor- dance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed time except for goods manufactured in the export processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Export- ers may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The sur- render of afghanis accruing from exports to the Is- lamic State of Afghanistan is not required. Under the Export Processing Unit (EPU) Scheme, selected industries, raw materials, intermediate goods used for the manufacturing of exports, im- ports of machinery, and components not manufac- tured locally are exempt from import duties and local taxes.5 The export-output ratio required to qualify for the EPU scheme is 50 percent in the first two years and 60 percent in the third year and beyond. In November 1994, a new Special Industrial Zone scheme was introduced for 12 designated underde- veloped areas with concessions for import duties and sales tax on imported plants and machinery, provided that letters of credit are opened before June 1996 and for income tax (time bound for 10 years) provided the projects commence operation by June 30,1999. Projects whose cost is higher than $10 million and that employ more than 100 persons are exempted from 25 percent of customs duty on raw materials provided they commence operation before June 30,1999, and letters of credit are opened before June 30,1996. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items,6 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm ^he industries included are textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furni- ture, sporting goods, surgical instruments, and cutlery. ^he exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; raw vegetable material; wool and animal hair; raw animal material; animal fodder; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; crude fertilizer; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inor- ganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and an- tiques; all metals; furs; and wood in rough or squared form. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 377 export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,7 or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. However, the State Bank is phasing out its out- standing stock of concessional loans to the export sector at the rate of 25 percent a year, so as to com- pletely eliminate the outstanding amount by July 1, 1996. Under the new system, the State Bank refi- nancing in excess of the above limit is held in a blocked account (special deposit account) in favor of the lending bank. Interest is paid on the account at the average weighted treasury bill rate from the last auction. The amount refinanced by the State Bank totaled PRs 2.78 billion as of December 31, 1994; of this amount, PRs 18.5 billion was held in the special deposit account. Rebates of 25 percent and 50 percent are available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of semifinished goods and finished goods, respectively, that are manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering products, garments, leather and leather products, textile products, and hand- knotted carpets and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent; the rebate rate on engineering goods is 90 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to use a maximum of 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports for pay- ments of foreign exchange obligations in respect of royalties, technical fees, and incidental charges. Un- der the Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme, raw materials and intermediate goods imported or pur- chased locally and used for manufacturing for ex- ports are exempt from import duties and local taxes. At present, the following industries are cov- ered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furniture, sporting goods, and surgical instruments. The exportation of cows is subject to quota restrictions. Exporters who are members of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for ex- port promotion and related costs. 7Under specified conditions, authorized dealers may grant concessional financing, without the State Bank's approval, against an irrevocable letter of credit or a firm export order. Smaller projects set up in these zones enjoy complete exemption from import duties on plants, machinery, equipment, and raw materials for a period of ten years, provided they commence op- eration by June 30, 1999, and letters of credit are opened by June 30,1996. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of afghanis, which may be re- tained, foreign exchange earned from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 500 a person in Pakistan currency notes from India; the limit for other sources is PRs 3,000 a person. There is no limit on the impor- tation of other currency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender in India; these coins may be imported only up to the value of Indian Rs 5 a person at a time. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to re- tain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earn- ings for marketing and related export promotion expenses. Capital Approval from the Government is required for the establishment of industries involving (1) arms and ammunition; (2) printing securities and cur- rency and minting coins; (3) high explosives; (4) radioactive substances (investments in these areas by domestic investors are also subject to approval); and (5) agricultural land, forestry irriga- tion, real estate, insurance, and health. Currently, the Foreign Private Investment (Pro- motion and Protection) Act of 1976 does not guar- antee repatriation of capital for investments undertaken before September 1954. These invest- ments are regulated by the terms and conditions governing each investment. Amendments to these provisions are under consideration. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may reg- ister their investments in National Prize Bonds is- sued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions may be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on out- ward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents is permitted through FEBCs and must be reported to the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, de- pending upon the nationality of the person and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfers of securities. The issuance, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities in favor of nonresident Pakistanis is per- mitted, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and invest- ment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 PAKISTAN capital and return. Pakistani securities held by non- resident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against pay- ments abroad, subject to the same terms and condi- tions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to Pakistani na- tionals residing outside Pakistan and to foreign na- tionals residing in or outside Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, on a repatriable basis against payment in for- eign exchange. Public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan and private limited or unlisted public limited com- panies engaged in manufacturing are permitted to issue or transfer shares on a repatriable basis to a nonresident Pakistani national, a person with two nationalities (including Pakistani), a foreign na- tional, or a company incorporated outside Pakistan (excluding branches in Pakistan of such companies and a company owned or controlled by a foreign government), provided that the issue price or pur- chase price in the case of a listed company is not less than the price as certified by a stock exchange bro- ker and that, in the case of private limited or un- listed public limited companies, the value of shares is paid in foreign exchange either through a remit- tance of foreign currency from abroad or out of a foreign currency account maintained by the sub- scriber in Pakistan. Nonresidents are permitted to invest in corporate debt instruments on a repatri- able basis against payment in foreign exchange. Permission is not required for exports of share cer- tificates by companies whose shares can be issued or transferred in favor of nonresidents covered by the general authority granted by the State Bank. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets not covered by repatriation arrange- ments must be credited to nonresident accounts. Bal- ances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan may un- derwrite share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan, provided that the total value of shares in each issue does not exceed 30 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, whichever is less. The foreign banks may also un- derwrite public issues of participation term certifi- cates, term finance certificates, and modaraba certificates, provided that when the terms and con- ditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, only 30 percent of total capital may be offered to the gen- eral public. Pakistani nationals residing abroad may invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remitting for- eign exchange or by debiting their foreign currency accounts in Pakistan; dividends, as well as the pro- ceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, pro- vided that tax, if applicable, is paid. Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatri- ated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless au- thorized by the State Bank; such permission is not usually granted. Pakistani nationals and foreign na- tionals coming from abroad are allowed to bring in unlimited quantities of gold in their personal bag- gage. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 30. The foreign exchange forward cover op- erations for trade credit and foreign loans for work- ing capital of foreign resident companies were abolished. The forward cover fee for foreign cur- rency deposits surrendered by banks was raised to 4.5 percent from 4 percent (for dollar deposits). July 1. Pakistan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. October 11. The annual forward cover fees for for- eign currency deposits surrendered by banks were raised as follows: to 4.75 percent from 4 percent for U.S. dollar deposits; to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent for pound sterling deposits (and to 3.5 percent on January 1, 1995); to 6 percent from 5.75 percent for Japanese yen deposits (and to 9 percent on January 1, 1995); and to 3 percent from 2.25 percent for deut- sche mark deposits (and to 5.5 percent on January 1, 1995). Imports and Import Payments January 11. The restricted list was abolished, and the items on this list were transferred to a list of per- mitted items subject to fulfillment of certain condi- tions for importation. February 8. The value ceiling applicable to the im- portation of machinery was abolished. June 15. The 6 percent import license fee was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 379 Payments for Invisibles June 5. The 5 percent advance tax on purchase of foreign exchange for travel was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds June 5. All export duties levied on raw cotton, cot- ton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, raw hides and skins, and onyx blocks were removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to coins, including several commemorative coins in small denominations. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Panama formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 26,1946. Administration of Control In general, import or export licenses are not re- quired. Only a few products are banned or require special import permits. Individuals or companies engaged in import activities require a commercial or industry license, which is issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI). Specific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these li- censes are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The MICI, through the Panama Trade De- velopment Institute, is responsible for determining all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agreements with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guate- mala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agree- ment with Mexico, 70 products may be exported from Panama to Mexico. The Ministry of Agricul- ture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), through various product-specific commissions, determine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on indus- trial products, but import quotas, established by the MIDA and the IMA, are maintained on some prod- ucts in the agricultural sector and agro-industries, including timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. The tariff schedule is based on the Customs Co- operation Council Nomenclature (CCCN). How- ever, a harmonized commodity description and coding system for customs tariffs will be introduced on January 1,1995. Most tariff rates are on an ad va- lorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. The present range of tariffs for the main agricultural products is between 30 percent and 100 percent. For some products, the tax is specific and is calculated on the basis of their weight in kilos. In cases where both tax rates are stated, the applica- ble rate is the one that produces the higher tax reve- nue. If the tax is specific, an additional tax of 7.5 percent on the c.i.f. value of imports is charged, except for (1) specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the additional tax rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; and (2) books and certain agricultural inputs, which are duty free. Many local industries are protected by tariffs aimed at promoting local and export indus- tries. Exemptions from import and customs duties on equipment, machinery, and spare parts apply mainly to export-oriented industries and to indus- tries concentrating on the local market, provided that certain conditions are met. A tariff reform pro- gram involving reductions in tariff ceilings and conversion of specific tariffs to ad valorem rates was implemented in August 1991 and continued into 1994. All imports into the city of Col6n, desig- nated as the Col6n Free Zone, and the newly estab- lished export-processing zones are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, ba- nanas, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost- 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 381 of-production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. The export-processing zones are ex- empt from all taxes (and as such receive no tax credit certificates). Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Any product (including raw materials and ma- chinery) may be imported into the Col6n Free Zone and be stored, modified, processed, assembled, re- packed, and re-exported without being subject to customs procedures. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama and on tickets purchased for travel starting in Panama. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Some foreign-controlled banks are autho- rized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry car- ried as personal effects by travelers require a license if made by residents other than the monetary author- ities; import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of un- worked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments August 3. Quotas and prior approval require- ments for imports of wheat, barley, broad soybeans, flour, and other glutens were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina, the external value of which is determined freely in twice-daily auctions on the ba- sis of bids and offers. The authorized dealer banks participate in the auctions, with the Bank of Papua New Guinea acting as broker. Trading with retail customers is effected outside the auctions at a mar- gin over the closing rate obtained from the preced- ing auction. The closing rate also becomes the official exchange rate, which on December 31,1994, was US$0.8485 per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their custom- ers within a maximum spread between the buying and selling rates of 2 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exporters and importers are free to take out for- ward cover with the commercial banks at market- determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its uncovered forward position. At its discretion, the Bank of Papua New Guinea may intervene in the forward foreign exchange market Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4,1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Papua New Guinea notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia /Montenegro). Contractual commitments to persons residing out- side Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Authorized foreign exchange dealers (at present, the five commercial banks) may open and maintain foreign currency accounts and foreign currency term deposits in Papua New Guinea for residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are re- stricted for reasons of health and security, and im- ports of a number of items, including meat, sugar, and pork, are prohibited to protect domestic mar- kets. The importation of most fresh fruits and vege- tables is banned (except for apples, onions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50 percent tariff. Authorized dealers may, without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quo- tas or licensing requirements. The tariff regime con- sists of the following rates: (1) essential items, including food staples (rice, and canned fish and meat that is not produced domestically), and medi- cal and educational supplies, duty free; (2) basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials, 11 percent; (3) intermediate goods, in- cluding goods with satisfactory domestic substi- tutes, 40 percent; and (4) luxury goods, including jewelry, cosmetics, poker machines, and nonessen- tial food and beverage items, 55 percent (except for television sets, cameras, video recorders, and hi-fi equipment, for which the tariff rate is 10 percent). Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily granted for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documen- tation is produced. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 383 the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for any purpose for all adult individuals or corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of the equivalent of K 500,000, except payments for the servicing of for- eign debt, must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for approval. Payments for the servic- ing of foreign debt may be approved without a fixed limit by authorized dealers. For payments or transfers exceeding the equivalent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K200 in notes and K 5 in coins; however, domestic coins is- sued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any cur- rency they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on the condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payments for goods exported must be re- ceived within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds must be sold to the Bank of Papua New Guinea or an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including travelers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for certain goods (e.g., logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Log export licenses are issued subject to minimum export price guidelines. There is no export license requirement on timber. Although exports of most unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except those on fishery and forestry products. Export taxes on logs range from 26 percent to 46 percent. Fish exports are sub- ject to a tax of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds, other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea, or for its reten- tion. Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the ap- proval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Capital Outward transfers of foreign-owned capital are allowed, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. Autho- rized dealers may approve outward investments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year. Income from the in- vestment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments held and in- come received must be submitted annually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 10,000 in any calendar year. Permission is required for residents to enter into an agreement to borrow in foreign currencies. How- ever, authorized foreign exchange dealers may ap- prove offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses involved in min- eral resources exploration, up to a maximum limit equivalent to K 5 million, provided that the term is for not less than three years and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Repayment of princi- pal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commenc- ing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstand- ing borrowing of up to the equivalent of K 5 mil- lion; the maximum debt-to-equity ratio for net aggregate borrowing in excess of the equivalent of K 5 million is determined by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource exploration activities, inward in- vestment is considered non-interest-bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the minimum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest- bearing loan. Authorized dealers may approve applications for inward direct investment and for inward portfolio investment, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed K 500,000 a year. Applications for larger investments must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea are not regulated. The exportation of gold is restricted to li- censed gold exporters. For the large mines, the li- censes are contained in their respective mining agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, specific ex- port licenses are required from the central bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement September 11. The kina was devalued by 12 per- cent against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged. In terms of the U.S. dollar, the rate changed from K 1.0563 per US$1 to K 0.9204 per US$1, repre- senting a devaluation of 12.9 percent. October 10. The exchange rate of the kina was al- lowed to float. Under the new arrangement, the ex- change rate of the kina would be determined in twice-daily auctions organized by the Bank of Papua New Guinea in which the authorized dealer banks would participate, on the basis of bids and offers supplied to each auction session. During a period between two consecutive auctions, the banks would trade foreign currencies with their re- PAPUA NEW GUINEA tail customers at a margin over the closing rate of the previous auction. Imports and Import Payments March 8. Three import duty rates were increased as follows: (1) the basic rate was increased by one percentage point to 11 percent; (2) the protective rate was increased to 33 percent from 30 percent; and (3) the luxury rate was increased to 55 percent from 50 percent. November 9. The protective rate was raised to 40 percent from 33 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds March 8. The duties on logs were increased to a range of 26-46 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and ex- change rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank of Paraguay in- tervenes when necessary to smooth out undesirable fluctuations, it does not interfere with underlying market trends. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Private transactions in respect of merchan- dise imports and exports, services, and capital are carried out through the authorized commercial banks; public transactions are carried out through the Central Bank or commercial banks. On Decem- ber 31,1994, the average rate prevailing in this mar- ket was ^^918.48^ per US$1. Public debt-service payments and payments for services by the Gov- ernment are channeled through the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No commissions are assessed on these transactions if debtors have foreign exchange deposit accounts with the Central Bank. The commercial banks may maintain a daily for- eign exchange overbought position not exceeding 100 percent of their capital and reserves, or an over- sold position of up to 50 percent of their capital and reserves. Exchange houses may maintain a daily overbought position of $250,000. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Paraguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 23,1994. Administration of Control The Central Bank has the authority, under the Constitution, to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other agencies of the Govern- ment. In practice, decisions are taken by the Eco- nomic Cabinet on the advice of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is responsible for the execution of the decisions of the Economic Cabinet. The Central Bank supervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bo- livia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing arrangements of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products that may be harmful to public health, national industries, or animal or plant health are prohibited; these restrictions, however, may be waived to ensure adequate do- mestic supplies. Imports of most petroleum and petroleum products are made through the Na- tional Petroleum Company, Petropar. Liquefied natural gas and aviation fuel may be imported by the private sector. All importers must be registered at the Central Bank. The tariff regime is as follows: zero tax on inputs; 5 percent on capital goods; and 10 percent on con- sumer goods, except automobiles, on which a rate of 15 percent or 20 percent is applied. Taxes are pay- able at the time of delivery of documents for cus- toms clearance. The following are the principal items that are ex- empt from tariffs: imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; furniture ac- quired through inheritance; all imports exempted under international treaties; the accompanied bag- gage of international passengers or nationals re- turning to establish residence in Paraguay; books and periodicals; and imports under the investment law. Until the end of 1994, certain imports to be used by the tourist industry, especially those at the border cities of Ciudad del Este, Encarnaci6n, and Pedro Juan Caballero, were taxed at the rate of 6 percent. All trade barriers within the Southern Cone Com- mon Market (MERCOSUR; comprising Paraguay, Ar- gentina, Brazil, and Uruguay) were eliminated on December 31,1994. Under the MERCOSUR Customs Union, which came into force on January 1, 1995, common external tariff rates ranging from zero to 20 percent were established with certain exceptions, 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PARAGUAY such as those on computers, telecommunications, and capital goods, the tariff rates for which will converge according to schedule through the year 2006. There will also be a list of products on which tariffs will be paid in intra-zone trade, as described in the Customs Union harmonization list. When im- port payments are made under the LAIA Recipro- cal Payments Agreement, the Central Bank levies a commission of 0.125 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through commercial banks or exchange houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. A 2.5 per- cent value-added tax is levied on international air transport tickets issued in the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, raw hides, and wild animals are prohibited. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. All other exports are not re- stricted, except with regard to the technical stan- dards imposed by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of In- dustry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, depending on the product exported. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days of completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents but may be retained by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles, except for royalties and remunera- tion from the binational entities, which are trans- ferred in full to the Central Bank for the account of the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, administrative expenditure outlays of the binational entities are paid through the operating banks. Capital All capital transfers must be channeled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatri- ation of earnings of foreign enterprises through the free exchange market is allowed, subject to a 5 per- cent levy, payment of income tax, and prior authori- zation from the Central Bank. The Government may grant exemptions from taxes, customs, and im- port surcharges on proposed investments that are duly registered and approved. Gold The Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold that residents may hold. This re- quirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jew- elry require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. Payments for gold imports by industrial us- ers must be made through commercial banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement August 23. Paraguay formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Capital July 29. The daily overbought and oversold for- eign exchange positions of banks were set at 100 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of their capital and reserve base. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol, the exter- nal value of which is freely determined by partici- pants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1994, the average interbank transaction rate, as registered and published by the Superintendency of Banking, was S/. 2.19 per US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in any currency, including the U.S. dollar, and the cross rate relationships with currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar in the in- ternational market. Since 1991, the exchange system has been free of controls on both current and capital transactions. Enterprises and natural persons may hold foreign exchange balances abroad and in domestic banks. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating only in the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in foreign currencies may be held with domestic banks. As from February 15, 1961, Peru formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange houses are authorized to purchase for- eign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by supreme decree, within the limits established by the Financing Requirement Law of the public sector. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments of unguaranteed suppliers' credits, of commercial banks, and of official loans obtained from Eastern European countries. Prescription of Currency Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezu- ela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. No other imports are restricted. Imports of raw materi- als and intermediate goods are exempt from import duties, provided that the appropriate ministry de- termines that such imports qualify under the Tem- porary Admission Regime. All monopolies on the importation of goods have been abolished, includ- ing the monopoly over the importation of milk powder and wheat by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing, and that over crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives by PETROPERU, a state- owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 18 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to the import duty; exempted from the value-added tax are some agricultural products. The tariff re- gime consists of two basic rates: 25 percent (maxi- mum) affecting 15 percent of products and 15 percent for the remainder, excluding imports subject to trade agreements. Agricultural products are subject to a variable import surcharge. Advance payments for all imports are allowed without restriction. Legislation has been enacted re- quiring preinspection at the port of embarkation by international firms for imports exceeding $2,000 (f.o.b.). Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all invisibles other than public debt service are not subject to payment authorization. Remittances of net profits are permitted freely. For- eign investment by petroleum companies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 75 items, mainly rare wildlife (including wild animal skins and textiles made from them), plants, cottonseed cakes, natural rubber, and mineral ores. State enterprise monopo- lies over the exportation of mining and petroleum 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PERU products were eliminated in 1991. Proceeds from ex- ports are not subject to a repatriation requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Capital Outward capital transfers, including amortiza- tion of private sector debts that are not guaranteed by the Government, are not restricted. Short-term trade credits that have been subject to a refinancing agreement or assumed by the Govern- ment began to be rolled over beginning August 1, 1983. Other short-term trade credits may be repaid in accordance with bilateral agreements concluded be- fore June 1992 or through renegotiation after that date with the approval of the External Debt Committee. New foreign investments must be registered with the National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology. Foreign companies incorporated in Peru may benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement under the same conditions as domestic enterprises. Investments in the mining sector are governed by the General Mining Law, enacted in June 1992. The Government may grant tax incentives to mining concessionaires (initiating large-scale investment programs). Under the Private Sector Investment Guarantee Regime, the Government guarantees nondiscrimi- natory treatment for foreign investors and private enterprises, protection of property rights, the devel- opment of any economic activity, free internal and external trade, and capital repatriation. In addition, investors may enter into contracts that guarantee tax stability, nondiscriminatory treatment, foreign currency availability, capital repatriation, free labor contracts, and export incentives. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control May 6. Peru resumed its participation in the An- dean Pact. Imports and Import Payments April 26. A revised general customs law was published. Exports and Export Proceeds February 11. The use of the Seguro de Cr<§dito a la Exportaci6n (SECREX) was modified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the ba- sis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange mar- ket and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31,1994, the reference exchange rate of the peso was P24.418 per US$1. The Central Bank of the Philippines, officially known as the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, BSP, is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading center. Com- mercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) or by telephone. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Without prior approval, non- Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may engage in business in the Philippines or invest in a domestic enterprise up to 100 percent of their capital except in areas restricted by law. Non- residents may purchase foreign exchange from au- thorized agent banks only up to the amount they have converted into pesos through the banking sys- tem or deposited in foreign currency accounts. Pursuant to Circular No. 1353, dated September 1, 1992 (superseded by Circular No. 1389), foreign ex- change may be freely sold and purchased outside the banking system. Foreign exchange received in the Philippines or acquired abroad may also be de- posited in accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency. However, in order that foreign loans and foreign investments can be serviced with foreign ex- change purchased from the banking system, the in- vestments must be registered with the BSP, and the loans must be approved, registered with, or re- ported to the BSP. All categories of banks (except off- shore banking units) duly licensed by the Central Bank are considered authorized agent banks. Thrift banks may be authorized to offer foreign currency accounts, subject to prudential regulations. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that long and short positions do not exceed 25 percent and 5 percent, respectively, of unim- paired capital. All forward transactions to purchase foreign exchange, including renewals thereof, from nonresidents require prior approval of the BSP. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, provided that the BSP is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Autho- rized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of individual or corporate nonresidents without the prior approval of the BSP. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign ex- change or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income earned from the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, below). Residents are allowed to maintain deposits abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, the importation of cer- tain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of public health and safety, national security, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Bel- gian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the Central Bank. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 PHILIPPINES international commitments, and development and protection of local industries. Imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. Applications to import freely importable products may be pro- cessed by authorized agent banks without prior ap- proval or clearance from any government agency. To import regulated products, a clearance of permit is required from the appropriate government agency (including the Central Bank). Prohibited products are those that may not be imported under existing laws. Import arrangements not involving payments using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, such as self-funded/no-dollar imports and importations on consignment basis, are allowed without prior approval from the Cen- tral Bank. Under the Comprehensive Imports Su- pervision Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 from all countries. Imports declared in the shipping doc- uments as off-quality, used, secondhand, scraps, off-grade, or a similar term indicating that the arti- cle is not brand new are subject to CISS inspection even if the value of the imports is less than $500. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange to service payments for imports under letters of credit (L/C), documents against acceptance (D/A), docu- ments against payments (D/P), open account (O/A) arrangement, and direct remittance. Letters of credit must be opened on or before the date of shipment and are valid for one year. Only one letter of credit may be opened for each import transaction; amend- ments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval. Registration of D/A and O/A imports with the BSP is needed only if payments are to be made from the banking system for monitoring purposes; prior approval of the BSP, regardless of maturity, is not required. Import ar- rangements not involving payments using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, such as self-funded/no-dollar imports and importation on consignment basis, are allowed without prior ap- proval from the BSP. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to residents for payments of any nontrade transac- tions against appropriate written applications with- out limit and without prior approval from the BSP, except for payments related to foreign loans or in- vestments that require documentation showing central bank approval and/or registration. Full and immediate repatriation of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents from all types of investment may be effected di- rectly through commercial banks without prior ap- proval from the BSP. However, service payments relating to foreign loans or foreign direct invest- ments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose original capital transfer has pre- viously been registered with the BSP. Service pay- ments related to option-to-purchase or transfer of ownership at a later date do not require prior BSP approval. Remittances of profits dividends and earnings made in connection with the program for the con- version of external debt into equity investments are unrestricted. Resident and nonresident travelers must have prior authorization from the BSP to take out more than P5,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P2,700 for first-class passage and Pl,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of Pl,350 for first-class pas- sengers and P810 for economy-class passengers are provided for groups of people traveling for recog- nized special purposes. Reduced rates of P400 for first-class passengers and P300 for economy-class passengers are provided for dependents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Over- seas Employment Administration. Departing non- residents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos of up to a maxi- mum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other for- eign exchange (calculated at prevailing exchange rates) without proof of sales of foreign exchange to authorized agent banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are allowed without restriction, except for those that are regulated or prohibited for rea- sons of national interest. Exports of selected seeds and shoots of native plants, endangered fish and wildlife (including selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. All exports must be covered by export declara- tions. Authorized agent banks may issue and amend an export declaration before negotiation without prior approval from the BSP. Payments for exports may be made in prescribed currencies, under the following forms without prior BSP approval: L/C, D/P, D/A, O/A, cash against docu- ments arrangements, consignment, export advance, and prepayment. Foreign currency deposit units ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 391 and authorized agent banks may purchase export bills directly from exporters and indirect exporters. Foreign exchange receipts or earnings of residents from exports may be sold for pesos to authorized banks or outside the banking system, retained, or deposited in foreign currency accounts, whether in the Philippines or abroad, and they may be used freely for any purpose. There are no export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no mandatory surrender requirements on proceeds from invisibles, which may be used without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P5,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Capital Registration of inward investments with the BSP is required only if the foreign exchange needed to service the repatriation of capital and remittances of dividends and profits from these investments is to be funded through the banking system. When ap- plications for registration of new inward foreign in- vestments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of in- dustry in which the investment is made, as long as (1) there is inward remittance of foreign exchange for cash investments; or (2) in the case of invest- ment in kind, there has been an actual transfer of assets to the Philippines. Full and immediate repa- triation is guaranteed on all BSP-registered foreign investments without restriction. Foreign companies are eligible to obtain loans in domestic currency from domestic sources, provided that they have a maximum debt-equity ratio of at most 60:40 in high-priority sectors, of 55:45 in me- dium-priority sectors, and of 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Investments in domestic commercial banks registered with the BSP may be repatriated without restriction. Foreign direct investments may be either (1) for- eign equity in Philippine firms or enterprises; (2) in- vestment in government securities or securities listed on the stock exchange; or (3) investment in money instruments or bank deposits. Foreign direct investment may be in cash or in kind. Investments are permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Eq- uity Investments. Under this program, most catego- ries of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be converted into equity investment. Under the Foreign Investments Act of 1991, non- Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may, upon registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, conduct business in the country or invest in domestic enterprises up to 100 percent of capital unless participation is prohib- ited or limited by existing law. However, enter- prises seeking to apply for incentives, as well as foreign investors in export enterprises, must also register with the Board of Investments. Issues of se- curities abroad by residents under initial public of- fering are required to advise the BSP of receipt of proceeds within five days. All industrial enterprises, whether owned by na- tionals or nonnationals, shall comply with the envi- ronmental standards set by the Government. Outward investments by resident natural and ju- ridical persons may be made freely, except those purchased from authorized agent banks that exceed $6 million an investor a year; such investments re- quire prior BSP approval. All public and certain private sector loans from foreign creditors, offshore banking units, and For- eign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs) must be re- ferred to the BSP for prior approval. These loans include (1) publicly guaranteed loans; (2) those cov- ered by foreign exchange guarantees by local com- mercial banks; (3) those guaranteed by FCDUs and funded or collateralized by offshore loans or depos- its; and (4) loans with a maturity of more than one year. Approval for public sector loans must be ob- tained before actual negotiations commence. Other private sector loans from the above-mentioned creditors require prior approval from and/or regis- tration at the Central Bank only if they are to be ser- viced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Non-guaranteed private sector short-term loans not exceeding 360 days generally do not require prior approval from the BSP and may be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, but must be reported to the BSP. Refinancing of such loans would require prior BSP approval. Private sector loans from for- eign currency deposit units (FCDUs) and offshore sources, irrespective of maturity, to be serviced with foreign exchange purchased outside the banking system do not require BSP approval. Loans requiring prior BSP approval are normally expected to finance export-oriented projects and those registered with the Board of Investment, projects listed in the Investment Priorities Plan and the Medium-Term Public Investment Program, and projects that may be declared high priority under the country's socioeconomic development plan by the National Economic and Development Author- ity or Congress. Inward remittances of loan pro- ceeds intended to finance only local requirements ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 PHILIPPINES of projects may be sold to the banking system or de- posited in FCDUs and/or offshore accounts. Pro- ceeds intended to finance foreign costs may not be inwardly remitted and may be paid directly to the supplier or deposited in an offshore account. Terms of loans to be obtained by the national Government and government corporations must be in accordance with the provisions of pertinent laws, although other loans may be made on terms similar to those prevailing in the international capital markets. Nineteen foreign banks are operating offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transac- tions with nonresidents and with other offshore banking units. They are permitted to lend to resi- dent importers and exporters, provided that such loans do not have public guarantees, that the funds have been remitted from abroad and sold to the banking system, and that loans are authorized by the BSP. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos exclusively with domestic agent banks to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay designated lo- cal beneficiaries of nonresident Philippine or multi- national companies the equivalent of foreign exchange remittances channeled through the off- shore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore banking units may also sell inward remit- tances of foreign exchange to the BSP. Gold Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the BSP. All other forms or types of gold may, at the option of the owner or producer and with the consent of the BSP, be sold and deliv- ered to the BSP. Producers are paid in Philippine pe- sos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar ex- change rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. The BSP may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jew- elry manufacturers and industrial users, at the BSP's gold-selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including the cost of conversion and packag- ing. The exportation of gold in any form, except that produced by small-scale miners, is permitted. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially of gold, gold coins, and coins without any indication of ac- tual fineness of gold content. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the BSP as follows: a 1 peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 piso Douglas MacArthur centenary coin (1980); a 1,500 piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 piso Bataan-Corregidor coin (1982); a 2,500 piso Aquino-Reagan coin (1986); and a 10,000 piso Democracy Restored coin (1992). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement July 28. All forward transactions to purchase for- eign exchange from nonresidents (including off- shore banking units), including renewals thereof, were required to be submitted for prior clearance to the BSP (Circular No. 36). Administration of Control June 9. All foreign exchange sales made through international ATMs and credit cards must be re- ported to the Foreign Exchange Department of the BSP within two days; the annual limit on such sales was set at $50,000 a person. Imports and Import Payments August 24. Restrictions limiting the use of docu- ments against acceptance (O/A) and open account arrangement (O/A) to eligible firms were removed. D/A and O/A arrangements, however, must be registered with the BSP for monitoring purposes, but the BSP would no longer issue central bank re- lease certificates. Any extension of maturities must be reported to the BSP 30 days before the effective date. The preapproval requirements by the BSP of D/A and O/A arrangements with maturities of more than 360 days were removed. Payments for export advances and prepayments would no longer be subject to a time limit of 30 days (Circular No. 40, Amendments to the Consolidated Foreign Ex- change Rules and Regulations). Capital March 7. Banks were authorized to engage in di- rect purchases of export bills of resident exporters subject to the following conditions (Circular No. 16): (1) only export transactions covered by us- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 393 ance letters of credit would be allowed to be pur- chased by FCDUs (foreign currency deposit units); (2) the sale of export bills must be on a "without re- course" basis to the exporters; (3) export bills nego- tiated or purchased by the bank's regular unit and outstanding in its books may not be allowed to be purchased by its FCDU; and (4) all outstanding ex- port bills purchased in the FCDU books, except those classified as bad or uncollectible accounts, must form part of the authorized asset cover against the FCDU's deposits and other foreign ex- change liabilities. June 21. Restrictions on repayment and repatria- tion of foreign investments funded by debt-to- equity conversion transactions were eliminated. Also repealed were the limitations on the remit- tance of dividends, profits, and earnings on such transactions (Circular No. 28). June 30. Thrift banks were authorized to operate an FDCU subject to compliance with minimum net worth/combined capital accounts of P50 million and to meeting other requirements applicable to commercial banks. Thrift banks would need to meet profitability requirements for two years (rather than the one applied to commercial banks), al- though this criterion could be waived subject to cer- tain conditions related to the experience of the FDCU operators and the level of net profits (Circu- lar No. 30). July 19. Limitations on short-term loans to private sector borrowers by FDCUs (as well as authorized agent banks) were liberalized to exempt loans to in- direct exporters who are defined to include cottage and small and medium-size industries (producers/ manufacturers) that have supply arrangements with direct exporters who are holders of an export letter of credit or a confirmed purchase order or sales contract from a foreign buyer. (This provision was added to the Consolidated Foreign Exchange Rules and Regulations in August 1994 under Sec- tion 4, Subsection 4a (Circular No. 3D). The ceiling on the annual amount of funds for investment that may originate from authorized agent banks was raised to $3 million from $1 million. The exclusion of export bills on a "without recourse" basis from FDCU purchases specified in Circular No. 16 (1994 series) was abolished. August 24. (1) The Consolidated Foreign Ex- change Rules and Regulations were amended (Cir- cular No. 40). All short-term loans of private exporters and importers from offshore banking units and foreign banks with branches in the Philip- pines would be subject to *he same provision as those applicable to private short-term loans issued under the Revolving Trade Credits and would not require BSP approval. For both types of short-term loan, as well as those associated with relending pro- grams of foreign creditors, refinancing by a me- dium- or long-term loan would require approval; a time limit of five days for notification of the BSP of a loan assignment was introduced; and new report- ing requirements were specified. For relending pro- grams of foreign creditors, approval of the operation was given for a one-year period but sub- ject to semiannual review if commitment or use falls below 50 percent. Private sector loans with a maturity of more than one year that are not guaran- teed by foreign governments or official export credit agencies would be exempted from BSP ap- proval, as would those granted by foreign compa- nies to local branches or subsidiaries that are used to finance eligible projects. All public sector loans require prior approval from the BSP. With respect to financing schemes involving an option to purchase or a transfer of ownership at a later date, BSP approval is not required, thus elimi- nating the previous approval requirement for loans and the servicing of such loans in an original amount in excess of $1 million. Servicing of such loans without the approval of BSP would remain re- stricted to those loans previously registered with the BSP. New bank reporting requirements were introduced. October 14. The entry of foreign banks to operate in the Philippines was liberalized (Circular No. 51). Such entry can be effected through a purchase of 60 percent of the voting stock of an existing domes- tic bank or of a new banking subsidiary incorpo- rated in the Philippines or through the establishment of branches with full banking author- ity, subject to the licensing requirements of the BSP. For a foreign bank branch (new or already estab- lished), permanently assigned capital of the dollar equivalent of P210 million (converted at the ex- change rate of P26.979 per US$1—the rate prevail- ing on June 5, 1994) must be remitted and converted into pesos, which will allow for the es- tablishment of three branches. For each three addi- tional branches to be opened, the U.S. dollar equivalent of P35 million must be remitted. November 5. The Consolidated Foreign Exchange Rules and Regulations (Circular No. 53) were amended. The provision for unrestricted inward re- mittance of loan proceeds, where the loan is to be serviced using foreign exchange from the banking system, was amended to restrict inward remittance to only loan proceeds intended to fund local costs. Proceeds intended to fund foreign exchange costs would not be allowed to be remitted inward, but may be paid directly to suppliers or deposited in an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 PHILIPPINES offshore account. The requirements for registration of such loans with the BSP were tightened to re- quire documentary proof on the disposition of loan proceeds. The prepayment or acceleration of payments on medium- and long-term loans duly registered with the BSP that take place within two years of final maturity was exempted from prior approval by the BSP. The registry of foreign investments with the BSP was modified to allow the funds to be depos- ited in an FCDU (in addition to allowing them to be sold for pesos). The procedures for registry of for- eign direct investment were amended accordingly. November 11. The limit on short foreign exchange open position was reduced to 5 percent from 15 per- cent of unimpaired capital (Circular No. 54). November 21. The regulations on foreign loans re- quiring BSP approval were amended (Circular No. 55). All loans, regardless of maturity, must fi- nance only foreign exchange costs (previously this requirement applied to short-term loans, and me- dium- and long-term loans could also be used to fi- nance local costs). Provisions were added to require issuers of securities under initial public offerings transacted outside the Philippines to advise the BSP through the Foreign Exchange Department of the receipt of proceeds of such sales within five days. The annual limitation on outward investment by Philippine residents on funds that originate in au- thorized agent banks was raised to $6 million from $1 million. The requirement for prior approval by the BSP for amounts in excess of the limit was amended accordingly. November 26. Local branches of foreign banks li- censed to engage in commercial banking in the Philippines must exclude their permanently as- signed capital pursuant to Section 68 of Republic Act No. 337, as amended, from their foreign ex- change liabilities for purposes of computing their net foreign exchange position (Circular No. 56). December 9. Effective December 1, 1994, an Ex- porters' Dollar Facility (EDF) was established at the BSP (Circular No. 57). Eligible banks were allowed to avail themselves of EDF for dollar-denominated loans to direct and indirect exporters (including technical, professional, and other services) up to a maximum of 100 percent of the face amount or the outstanding balance of the loan, with maturity set at 90 days for export-packing credits, and with a variable maturity, depending on the geographical location of the drawee bank for export bills; the ma- turity for service exporters would be 180 days. Re- payment of the loan will be in dollars. Availments against the EDF would be charged against the bank's rediscount ceiling; for foreign banks, the re- discount ceiling will be 25 percent of "net-due-to" item plus assigned capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of June 30,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 Groszy per Zl 1), the external value (central rate) of which is pegged to a basket of five currencies.1 The central rate is adjusted under a crawling peg policy. On November 30,1994, the rate of depreciation was set at 1.4 percent a month, and on February 15,1995, it was changed to 1.2 percent a month. Since May 16, 1995, the National Bank of Poland has allowed the external value of the zloty to fluctuate within mar- gins of ±7 percent around the central rate. The exchange rates between the zloty and other con- vertible currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned on international markets. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes exchange rates for the European currency unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 28 countries considered market economies.2 The spread between the buying and selling rates for notes and coins is set at 4 percent.3 Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set daily and are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the rele- vant currencies in international markets. The exchange rate on the foreign exchange bu- reau market, in which natural persons are allowed to transact freely provided that the transaction is not a commercial one, is determined by market forces and may differ from the official rate set by the NBP.4 During 1994, the exchange rate on the for- lrThe basket consists of (figures in parentheses represent weights) the U.S. dollar (45 percent); the deutsche mark (35 per- cent); the pound sterling (10 percent); the French franc (5 per- cent); and the Swiss franc (5 percent). On January 1, 1995, new currency notes and coins began to circulate, replacing old cur- rency at a conversion rate of 1 to 10,000. Old currency will re- main in circulation until the end of 19%. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, U.S. dollars, and Yugoslav dinars. "^Since January 13, 1992, banks in Poland have been given more freedom in determining the exchange rates to use in for- eign exchange transactions. Specifically, they are permitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2 percent around the middle rate set by the NBP. Banks7 transactions with the NBP now take place at the buy/sell ratio set by the NBP, whereas pre- viously they took place at the NBPs middle rate. 4Fortign exchange bureaus (kantors) must obtain licenses to operate. eign exchange bureaus market remained closely in line with the official rate. Poland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from June 1,1995 Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the For- eign Exchange Law rests with Parliament.5 Imple- menting regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the president of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents and for specified groups. The procedures for issuing indi- vidual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the Minister of Fi- nance. The authority to enforce foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the pres- ident of the NBP. However, decisions concerning in- dividual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- istry of Finance, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs offices, the border guard, and post offices. Prescription of Currency Outstanding balances under the (inoperative) bi- lateral payments agreements with Bangladesh, Bra- zil, China, Egypt, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Lebanon, and Turkey are being settled in ac- cordance with the terms of the agreements. Bal- ances outstanding under the arrangements of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. Settlements with all other currencies may be made in any con- vertible currency. Since January 1, 1991, almost all trade with the former member countries of the Council for Mu- tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) has been settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of 5A new foreign exchange law was passed in December 1994 and came into effect on January 1,1995. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 POLAND trade, both under pre-existing contracts and in set- tlement of ruble balances outstanding at the end of 1990, continues to be transacted in transferable rubles. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts: Residents, both natural and ju- ridical persons, may hold foreign exchange in the form of currency and securities. Residents who are natural persons may maintain currency accounts "A," and these accounts may be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or deposited without declaring the sources of funds. Account holders may use bal- ances freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by themselves or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. Balances in these accounts cannot be used to effect settlements be- tween individuals but can be sold in foreign ex- change bureau markets. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Accounts maintained in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars in demand deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5-4 percent. Accounts maintained in these currencies in one-, two-, and three-year term deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. Funds in A Accounts cannot be used for business activity. When leaving the country per- manently, individuals are allowed under the gen- eral foreign exchange permit to transfer all funds from this account. Foreign Exchange Accounts for Foreign Settlements (ROD): ROD Accounts are held by juridical per- sons. Although all foreign exchange receipts from exports, in principle, must be surrendered, juridical persons are allowed to retain foreign exchange ac- cumulated in ROD Accounts before January 1,1990. Resident individuals and enterprises who demon- strate proof of need may hold foreign exchange ac- counts abroad with the permission of the NBP. Under the general foreign exchange permit, such an account may also be held by enterprises earning for- eign exchange from performing specific contracts. Balances in these accounts may not exceed $100,000. Nonresident Accounts: Nonresident natural and ju- ridical persons are free to maintain both convertible currency and zloty accounts. Nonresidents may maintain convertible currency accounts ("C" Accounts) at all foreign exchange banks. These accounts may be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other C Accounts, and with convertible cur- rency amounts legally acquired in Poland.6 Depos- its are freely transferable abroad, and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency at the same rates as funds on the A Accounts. Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts, but depositors must declare the source of the zlotys; this declaration requirement is aimed at ensuring that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that com- ply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with foreign ex- change converted into zlotys at the official ex- change rate. Permits for conversion back into foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also de- posit their earnings in savings accounts, on which interest is paid. Balances in zloty accounts may be transferred to nonresidents or residents with for- eign exchange permits, except for gift payments to residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Per- mits for transfers to residents are granted without restriction. Imports and Exports Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment, temporary imports of capital goods, transport equipment for leasing, and inputs subject to a quota system. Licenses are required for imports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements. The importation of certain mineral oils, tobacco prod- ucts, and alcoholic beverages is subject to a quota. Imports of certain alcohol products, combine har- vesters older than 4 years; passenger cars older than 10 years; trucks, vans, and utility cars older than 3 years; and cars with two-cycle engines are prohibited. Export quotas cover only items subject to import restrictions by other countries. Export licenses are required for (1) goods subject to export quotas (raw hides and ferrous waste and scrap); (2) exports car- ried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements; and (3) temporary exports of capital goods and trans- port equipment for leasing. Nonresidents in Poland ^ince January 1, 1995, a foreign national entitled to transfer foreign currency has been allowed to hold "unrestricted foreign accounts"; funds in these accounts are freely transferable abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 397 (persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corpo- rate entities operating in Poland) are required, tem- porarily, to apply for export permits. Exports of live geese and eggs, hide scraps, and nonferrous metals are prohibited. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS) and the combined nomenclature of the EC of 1991, with six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; 0-5 per- cent on other raw materials; 7-13 percent on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 17-29 percent on industrial goods; 25-40 percent on agri- cultural and textile products; and 29-43 percent on luxury goods. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Gen- eral System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropical products from Chap- ters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from Chapters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of inter- est to developing countries enter Poland duty free. For the remaining goods imported from non-Euro- pean developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced to 30 per- cent of the most-favored-nation (MFN) rate. Some special regulations pertain to border trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. Imports are subject to a surcharge of Zl 50,000 and an additional turnover tax of 6 percent; alco- holic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and auto- mobiles are exempt from the turnover tax. Exports other than coal are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on imports for export produc- tion are refunded. Exporters must declare all foreign currency re- ceipts from exports, repatriate them within two months of receipt, and surrender them to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days of re- ceiving notice that foreign exchange has been de- posited in their accounts in Poland. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from merchandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transac- tions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such pay- ments is made available automatically once the transaction is authorized. For official and business travel, separate allow- ances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out of Poland up to the equivalent of $10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the en- terprises that employ them for travel expenses or purchases of goods and services associated with their business activity. Polish nationals departing Poland are permitted to take abroad up to $2,000 or the equivalent in con- vertible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks that they purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations to foreign na- tionals resulting from (1) the purchase of movable assets and proprietary interests, and (2) transporta- tion and insurance services. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. However, holders of A Accounts may take out of the country the balance of their accounts without limit. When leaving Poland, tourists from convert- ible currency area countries may reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent they brought into Poland, pro- vided that the amount is not more than that origi- nally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Residents must repatriate for- eign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Resi- dents may, without approval, bring into or take out of the country domestic banknotes and coins in an amount not exceeding Zl 5 million a person. For- eign visitors must declare foreign exchange they bring into the country in order to take out the un- spent amount and are not permitted to bring zlotys into the country or to take them out. Business entities may use their ROD Accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employees. They may also use their ROD Accounts, or foreign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks, to pay outstanding obligations relating to (1) pro- curement costs, including costs of participation in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees for agent representational services; (3) costs of re- pairing and overhauling imported machinery and equipment; (4) costs associated with protecting in- tellectual property; and (5) costs related to auditing, consulting, and information services. Similarly, in- dividuals may remit foreign exchange to pay for (1) participation in international organizations and international hotel networks abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equiva- lent of $20,000 a case; (3) costs of obtaining legal counsel and trial representation in a given case up to $50,000 or the equivalent; (4) taxes, customs du- ties, or administrative fees payable abroad; and (5) study abroad. Amounts in excess of established ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 POLAND limits may be remitted if supporting documents showing the bona fide nature of the transaction are provided. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Po- land, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises and through individual foreign ex- change permits. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of their income. Residents may remit pensions and an- nuities in convertible foreign exchange at the offi- cial exchange rate to nonresidents who are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administration. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, or the acquisi- tion of shares in Polish companies, may be trans- ferred abroad without restriction. If the investment yields a net surplus in convertible currency in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus may be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the in- vestor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on the public sector's external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S.A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks, and the contracting of foreign loans is subject to approval. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed with a credit of up to the equiva- lent of $1 million, with repayment terms of up to 360 days. With a permit, imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $1 million may also be financed with a credit with repayment terms of up to three years. A new foreign investment law (Law on Compa- nies with Foreign Participation) came into effect on July 4, 1991, replacing the old Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which had governed all new foreign direct invest- ments since December 23, 1988. Under the 1991 law, new businesses will need to register only with local courts, except for investments in the areas of seaports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, legal services, and wholesale trade in imported products, which will continue to require permits. Although the previous three-year tax holiday for new businesses was abolished, the taxation system was simplified, and imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs du- ties. Investors in certain priority sectors will also be eligible for tax concessions, as will investments ex- ceeding ECU 2 million a year. The 10 percent ceil- ing on purchases in shares of privatization issues has been abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above-mentioned sectors. For joint ventures, as well as for invest- ments in shares of Polish companies, all limits on the transfer of profits have been lifted, and in- vested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are met. The transfer of profits or repatriation of capital from bonds is not restricted. The 1991 law does not stipulate a mini- mum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, thus eliminating the requirement of $50,000. Nevertheless, the minimum capital re- quirement set forth in the Polish commercial code for a limited liability company and a joint-stock company is still in effect. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, requires a foreign exchange permit. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign ex- change permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a nonres- ident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of Interior. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to per- mission from the foreign exchange authorities. Pol- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 399 ish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one en- terprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement September 13. The monthly rate of depreciation of the zloty was reduced to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent November 30. The monthly rate of depreciation of the zloty was reduced to 1.4 percent from 1.5 percent. Administration of Control December 2. A new Foreign Exchange Law was passed removing some exchange restriction on cur- rent international transactions. The new law took effect January 1,1995. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 1. New currency notes and coins were is- sued replacing old currency at a conversion rate of 1 to 10,000. Old currency would remain in circula- tion until the end of 1996. May 16. The National Bank of Poland allowed the external value of the zloty to fluctuate within mar- gins of ±7 percent around the central rate. June 1. Poland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control March 27. Amended general foreign exchange permits came into force. Imports and Exports January 1. The rate of import surcharge was re- duced to 5 percent from 6 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of March 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo. Portugal participates with Austria, Belgium, Den- mark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Portugal maintains the spot exchange rates between the Portuguese escudo and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates ex- pressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Banco de Portu- gal (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On March 6,1995, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per Portuguese Escudos Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Austrian schillings Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Spanish pesetas 1,691.800 1,254.700 577.090 3,120.500 11,903.300 3,549.000 286.983 10,584.000 139.920 428.000 2,314.300 8,827.700 2,832.100 212.838 7,834.700 103.770 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies3 are based on information on the Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1, 1995, and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ± 15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, exchange rate of the Portuguese escudo in terms of the deutsche mark provided by the banking system and are announced daily by the Banco de Portugal. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and of- fer rates, which are freely set. On December 31,1994, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 159.093 per US$1. A tax of 0.9 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange except on interbank transactions. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency among themselves and with residents and nonresidents at free market rates of exchange. Nonbank residents may also conduct spot or forward exchange opera- tions with nonresident counterparts. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Banco de Portugal for their foreign exchange posi- tions (calculated as the sum of the positions against escudos in each foreign currency). Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 12,1988. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism. The Direcgao-Geral do Com£r- cio in this ministry is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export li- censes, declarations, and certificates. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be effected in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to open and operate accounts in Portugal or abroad in either es- cudos or foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be freely made into Portugal. For products under EU surveillance, import declarations, when required, are issued for Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate o fP1 .03pe rHK$ l. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 401 statistical surveillance purposes and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of cer- tain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions or are prohib- ited for reasons of health, public order, and the pre- vention of commercial fraud. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. The validity of import licenses is six months for customs clearance purposes. For agricultural products covered by the com- mon agricultural policy of the EU, the EU may re- quire an import certificate. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to im- port restrictions in the EU when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of restrictions. Proceeds from ex- ports are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. The exporta- tion or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks in excess of the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million must be declared to customs. Capital There are no exchange restrictions or controls on capital transactions, and no distinction is made be- tween capital transactions with residents of EU member countries and residents of non-EU member countries. Foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign di- rect investment operations require prior declaration to the Investmentos Com£rcio e Turismo de Portugal (ICEP) and are considered approved if the ICEP does not reply within two months. Projects submitted by non-EU investors may be subject to review. The establishment of a financial institution in Portugal in which a majority voting right is held by natural persons who are not nationals of an EU member country or by legal persons with their main office and central management in a non-EU country is subject to previous authorization from the Minister of Finance, which may consider pru- dential requirements as well as other criteria. Simi- lar regulations apply to the establishment in Portugal of branches of a financial institution lo- cated in a non-EU member country. The establishment in a non-EU member country of branches of financial institutions by nonresidents is subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Portugal. Residents and nonresidents may also import and export bullion, coins, and un- worked gold, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 million. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 22. The movements of any funds in Por- tugal that are controlled by public authorities or companies of Libya were prohibited (the Bank of Portugal's Notice No. 8/93). Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554). Capital February 28. Foreign participation in the capital of wholly privatized companies was not allowed to exceed 25 percent, unless the legislation governing the privatization process of those companies sets a higher limit (Decree Law No. 65/94). April 2. The withholding tax on the interest earned on government securities owned by nonres- idents was eliminated (Decree Law No. 88/94). August 2. Issue of securities by nonresidents in the domestic capital market was liberalized (Decree Law No. 204/94). September 14. Issue of commercial papers in the domestic market was liberalized (Decree Law No. 231/94). Changes During 1995 March 6. The upper and lower limits of the es- cudo for the currencies of participants in the ERM of the EMS were changed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate, but these margins were exceeded during March through December 1994. The Qatar Central Bank sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6415 and QR 3.6385, re- spectively, per US$1. The exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the Qatar Central Bank's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commer- cial banks for other currencies are based on the Qa- tar Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may pur- chase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 4,1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Central Bank is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange con- trol legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Commerce. Fi- nancial transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Iraq and Israel are prohib- ited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. All imports from Iraq and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Imports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC). The customs tariff on steel is 20 percent; on tobacco 104 percent; and on alco- holic beverages 100 percent. Imports of goods from other member countries of the GCC are not subject to a customs tariff. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Oth- erwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Iraq and Israel. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, although payments may not be made to or received from Iraq and Israel. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, in- dustry, agriculture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, provided that the latter's share is not less than 51 percent. Noncitizens may also establish companies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies or if there is a need for the experience and technology they provide. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 403 Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- ject to customs duty. Transactions involving Iraq and Israel are prohibited. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the refer- ence exchange rate) is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Ro- mania (NBR) does not intervene in the exchange market except to smooth out fluctuations in ex- change rates and to build up foreign exchange re- serves. Only commercial banks authorized by the NBR can participate in the exchange market. Juridi- cal persons other than authorized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. All transactions be- tween resident juridical persons and between jurid- ical persons and natural persons must be made in the national currency. In certain circumstances, the NBR may authorize foreign exchange operations between juridical persons. On December 31, 1994, the exchange rate was Lei 1,767 per US$1. The NBR quotes rates for 23 other currencies,1 based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the European cur- rency unit. Foreign exchange bureaus conduct transactions only in foreign currency banknotes and traveler's checks and only with natural per- sons. Since September 19,1994, these bureaus have been allowed to set their exchange rates freely. The transferable ruble, the currency used for commercial transactions with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assis- tance (CMEA), has been abolished but continues to be used as a unit of account for the purpose of liqui- dating outstanding balances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Under the provision of the law setting up the NBR as the country's central bank, which came into force on May 3,1991, the NBR issues rules and reg- ulations related to control of foreign exchange Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Egyptian pounds, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Turkish liras. transactions. The NBR authorizes all capital trans- fers, including those connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad on the basis of visas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance.2 Domestic com- mercial banks are authorized by the NBR to con- duct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions and are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to bor- row directly abroad with NBR authorization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Ro- mania has bilateral payments agreements are made only in the currency and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts All juridical and natural persons may maintain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized by the NBR to operate in Romania. Resident juridical persons may open and main- tain foreign exchange accounts abroad or other as- sets in foreign currency with the prior authorization of the NBR. Romanian natural persons and foreign- ers permanently domiciled in Romania and receiv- ing foreign exchange income abroad may hold and use foreign means of payment in foreign exchange accounts held in financial and banking institutions abroad. Natural persons may also hold foreign ex- change in the form of banknotes and coins or in ac- counts opened with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania and, within the laws and conditions specified by foreign exchange regula- tions, may freely use such foreign exchange to effect international current payments and capital pay- ments. The deposits may also be exchanged for lei Authorization is not required to operate nonresident deposits held by resident banks; loans and credits received by residents and guaranteed by the state; and deposits that resident banks place in their own name. 3At the end of 1994, Romania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, Ghana, Greece, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Pakistan, and the former CMEA countries. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 405 through the foreign exchange bureaus authorized to operate in Romania. Imports and Exports Import and export transactions were liberalized on May 1,1992 and in general are not subject to li- censing, except for a few consumer goods that are subject to quantitative restrictions, goods covered by international arrangements signed by Romania, and certain controlled strategic goods. Both the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the Ministry of Finance may take measures to restrict imports for purposes of protecting the balance of payments, or for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Import tariff rates are ad valorem, and range from zero to 60 percent, with a simple average rate estimated to be about 19 percent. A differential im- port surcharge is levied on certain imported agri- cultural products. Exports of some goods (including wheat, butter, a few hydrocarbon products, certain minerals, blood products, logs and wood products, and scrap met- als) have been suspended. Certain goods (including timber, livestock, sunflower seeds, maize, certain mineral oils, chemical fertilizers, and copper alloys) are subject to export quotas. Resident juridical persons must maintain foreign exchange export proceeds in accounts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania but are free to use the balances in these accounts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All juridical economic agents may effect foreign exchange transfers for payments for invisible (or any international current account) transactions through authorized commercial banks. Commercial banks must verify, based on supporting documents, that the requested transfer is for bona fide current account purposes. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to sell foreign exchange to resident natural persons for the purpose of travel abroad up to the annual limit of $500. Natural persons residing in Romania may take out of the country foreign exchange in the form of banknotes and coins up to a maximum amount equivalent to $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions (such as expenses for group or individ- ual travel, medical treatments or purchases of med- icines, participation in conferences, education, purchases of consumer goods for personal use, and payments for services); no documentation is re- quired for amounts of $1,000 or less. Natural per- sons must make all transfers exceeding $5,000 through banks. Transfers to banks abroad for cur- rent operations may also be made from the ac- counts of natural persons domiciled permanently in Romania and from the accounts of other Romanian juridical persons, except in special cases (as stipu- lated by law) requiring prior authorization from the NBR; such authorization is granted on a case-by- case basis. Banks may not limit the volume of bona fide current operations. The maximum amount of foreign currency bank- notes and coins that natural persons may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Natural persons who are Romanian or foreign citi- zens staying in the country temporarily and who enter Romania in possession of more than the equivalent of $1,000 in foreign currency banknotes are required to declare the excess amount. Amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the coun- try. The maximum amount of domestic banknotes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is Lei 100,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than Lei 5,000. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change and all capital transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the NBR. Capital transfers connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liq- uidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad are autho- rized by the NBR on the basis of permits issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Under the investment law that came into effect on May 3,1991, there are no limits on foreign equity participation in a commercial firm set up in Roma- nia, and foreign investments may be made in all sectors of the economy, except where the environ- ment or Romania's national security and defense interests must be protected. Foreign investors can participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign con- tractual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. In addition, foreign investors can transfer abroad (1) the entire amount of their share of profits earned in convertible currencies; (2) with the authorization of the fiscal authorities and the NBR, part of their share of annual profits earned in lei and converted into convertible cur- rency; (3) the total or partial proceeds in convert- ible currencies from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 ROMANIA and other securities, as well as from the liquida- tion of investments; and (4) the proceeds in lei from the liquidation of investments in freely con- vertible currencies. Imported machinery, equip- ment, installations, means of transport, and any other goods in kind constituted as participation of the foreign investor are exempt from custom du- ties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advantages. Gold The NBR has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. It, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. Natural persons may, without restriction, own gold jewelry and artistic and cultural objects for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 11. The reference exchange rate was set at the level of the market clearing exchange rate. August 1. Foreign exchange auctions were re- placed by an interbank foreign exchange market. September 19. Foreign exchange bureaus were permitted to buy and sell through the interbank ex- change market. Resident and Nonresident Accounts October 14. Requirements for natural persons to report sources of funds deposited in foreign ex- change accounts and uses of funds withdrawn from these accounts were eliminated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The maximum amount of foreign ex- change a resident natural person can purchase from foreign exchange bureaus was set at $500 a year. Imports and Exports January 1. Export-licensing requirements for cer- tain products were introduced. March 16. A statistical monitoring regime for im- ports of 100 tariff lines was introduced. June 27. Reference prices and a compensation tax system for certain agricultural food products were established. July 27. Quotas for the second half of 1994 on the export of live animals to EU countries were established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Russian Federation is the Ru- ble. An official exchange rate is quoted by the Cen- tral Bank of Russia (CBR) based upon market exchange rates that are determined in daily auc- tions held at the Moscow Interbank Currency Ex- change (MICEX).1 Auction markets are also organized in other major cities, including St. Peters- burg, Ekaterinburg, Vladivostok, Rostov, and No- vosibirsk. There is a growing interbank exchange market outside of the currency exchanges. Curren- cies traded on the MICEX include Belarus rubles, deutsche mark, French francs, Kazakh tenge, pounds sterling, and Ukrainian karbovanets. Cur- rencies traded on other exchanges also include Finnish markkaa and Japanese yen. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency of the CBR in the MICEX and on other exchanges where the CBR operates. The CBR participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the interbank market out- side the auctions. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the CBR. The CBR ex- change rate is announced twice a week and is equal to the midpoint of the closing rates at the Tuesday and Thursday MICEX auctions. It becomes effec- tive on the following day and remains in effect until the Friday and Wednesday auctions, respectively. Exchange rates announced by the CBR are used for accounting and taxation purposes, and operations with the Ministry of Finance. The CBR quotes ex- 1The MICEX is a joint stock company of resident foreign ex- change banks and nonbank licensed organizations. The Central Bank of Russia is a shareholder and founder of the MICEX. The CBR issues three kinds of foreign exchange license: internal li- censes, which allow a bank to deal in foreign exchange inside the Russian Federation, including establishing foreign exchange bu- reaus, and to open correspondent accounts in the banks of the former Soviet Union (e.g., Moscow Narodony); limited licenses, which allow banks to open up to six correspondent accounts in banks of their choice, in addition to correspondent accounts in former Soviet banks abroad and to deal in up to six currencies; and general licenses, which allow banks to carry out the fu ll range of foreign exchange operations, including portfolio trans- actions. The MICEX receives a commission in U.S. dollars of 0.1 percent on net purchases of U.S. dollars and a commission in rubles of 0.1 percent on net purchases of rubles. The other cur- rency exchanges of the Russian Federation are organized in a similar manner as the MICEX; the CBR is not necessarily a share- holder of these exchanges but may operate on them. change rates of the ruble for the ECU and 26 con- vertible currencies on the basis of the MICEX ruble- U.S. dollar rate and the cross rate relationships be- tween the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market on the day preceding auctions. The CBR provides reference exchange rates for the currencies of the states of the former Soviet Union against the ruble, based on market ex- change rates in the Russian Federation (auction rates of currency exchanges) or local markets; these reference rates are used for taxation and accounting purposes, and authorized commercial banks are free to quote the rates for these currencies in their transactions. The CBR also calculates the (former) Gosbank exchange rate of the ruble (the so-called official exchange rate; about Rub 0.6 per US$1) as a unit of account for the valuation of external claims of the countries of the former Soviet Union and re- lated transactions.2 An interbank, mainly noncash, market operates outside the auctions among the major authorized banks, mainly in a given region; the regional seg- mentation stems from the length of settlement of the ruble leg of foreign exchange transactions be- tween banks affiliated with different payment cen- ters; this feature hampers effective arbitrage between regional markets and leads the CBR to op- erate in the regional exchanges in order to apply the same exchange rate throughout the country. Autho- rized banks may trade on behalf of their customers and on their own accounts in these markets, subject to exposure limits defined by the CBR.3 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange.4 There are no official ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. A futures trading market has developed in Moscow and is regulated as part of the CBR expo- sure limits, and forward contracts are also sold by authorized banks. 2The official rate was defined by the Soviet Gosbank in rela- tion to a currency basket of six convertible currencies, and the value of that unit of account, therefore, fluctuates with the ex- change rates of those currencies. 3End-of-day exposures must not exceed $100,000 for each Rub 1 billion of capital up to Rub 10 billion. Exposures of banks with a capital exceeding Rub 10 billion must obtain individual limits from the CBR. 4A local turnover tax of 0.1 percent has been imposed by the city of Moscow since March 1,1994. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Administration of Control The responsibility for regulating foreign trade and exchange transactions is shared by the CBR, the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, the Federal Service of Currency and Ex- change Control, and the State Tax Service. The CBR is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring transac- tions of authorized banks, including accounting pro- cedures for the revaluation of foreign currency items, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange posi- tions. It has delegated to the authorized banks the re- sponsibility for enforcing capital controls and repatriation and surrender requirements; the CBR, the Inspectorate of State Control, and the State Tax Service monitor the banks' enforcement. The Minis- try of Finance supervises compliance with regula- tions concerning export quotas, licensing, and transactions in precious metals and unprocessed pre- cious stones. The State Tax Service supervises the payment of taxes on income in foreign currencies. The Law of the Russian Federation on Currency Regulations and Currency Controls stipulates that Parliament is responsible for overseeing the Gov- ernment's foreign exchange reserves. The authority for changing the rules for the mandatory sale of for- eign exchange from export earnings rests with the President of the Russian Federation. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Russian Federation notified the IMF on April 1, 1993 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of pay- ments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Arrears are maintained with respect to external debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency The Russian Federation's payment and settle- ment arrangements with other countries follow the principle that trade should be valued at world prices and settled in freely convertible currencies unless otherwise stated in intergovernmental agree- ments. Existing official payment arrangements fall into three categories (1) payment arrangements re- lated to trade; (2) payment arrangements related to intergovernmental credits; and (3) payment ar- rangements related to foreign investment. Payment arrangements in credit and investment agreements may affect current account transactions in that pay- ments may be effected in kind and at nonmarket ex- change rates. At present, the Russian Federation maintains bi- lateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Po- land, the Slovak Republic, and Slovenia. Agree- ments with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Cuba, Egypt, India, and the Syrian Arab Republic specify clearing currencies for the settlement of merchan- dise trade according to indicative commodity lists and for the payment of technical assistance from the Russian Federation. Payments for technical as- sistance to Albania, Cambodia, China, India, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam are effected in convertible currency or by credit repayable in kind. Receipts in convertible currency from Albania and Mongolia are deposited in special accounts for payment for imports from these countries by the Russian Federation only. When specific agreements do not exist or trade takes place outside the framework of the agree- ments, settlements are effected in convertible cur- rency. In particular, centralized exports by the Government (mostly fuel and other energy prod- ucts) to the former CMEA member countries must be settled in convertible currencies, while the settle- ment of other exports is left to the contracting parties. Settlements among the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made principally through correspondent accounts of authorized banks in rubles or in convertible cur- rencies. Payments to the Russian Federation are also effected through the central banks of the Baltic countries and other countries of the former Soviet Union through a system of bilateral correspondent accounts; balances in these accounts may not be set- tled multilaterally. At the end of 1994, the CBR held a sizable surplus balance denominated in rubles with the central banks of these countries.5 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Natural and juridical persons may open foreign currency accounts at authorized resident banks. Resident natural persons may maintain bank ac- counts abroad only while working abroad; other- wise, they must obtain permission from the CBR. Resident juridical persons, including branches of Russian banks, may not maintain accounts abroad ^ost of this balance was renegotiated on market terms fol- lowing the demonetization of the pre-1993 rubles and after the CBR ceased to extend new credit to these central banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 409 without special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses. Since July 16,1993, au- thorized Russian banks have been allowed to open correspondent accounts in the countries of the former Soviet Union without restriction, provided that they comply with the regulation on exposure limits. Nonresidents may hold four types of accounts: "T" accounts, which are used for the servicing of export-import operations by their representative of- fices in the Russian Federation; correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same re- gime applicable to "T" accounts; "I" accounts, which can be used for investment activities (includ- ing privatization operations); and nonresident ac- counts for physical persons. The use of balances in "T" accounts and correspondent ruble accounts is limited to domestic transactions; "I" accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities. Nonresidents may sell or buy foreign exchange with funds in these latter accounts. Imports and Exports Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines and pesti- cides, and industrial waste. A customs duty rang- ing from 5 percent to 15 percent is levied on most goods; duties on some goods range up to 150 per- cent. The following products are exempt from cus- toms duties: foodstuffs; medicines; inputs for production of medicine; medical supplies and equipment; printed materials; children's articles; accompanied baggage, except motor vehicles, up to $2,000; equipment for the oil and gas industries; and ships and boats. Imports from the CIS countries and "least developed" countries are also exempt, and the customs duties on imports from other de- veloping countries are reduced by one-half. Cus- toms duties are payable in rubles at the exchange rates of the CBR. Foreign-owned companies, banks, and organizations that are officially accredited in the Russian Federation may import unlimited of- fice-related goods duty free. Foreign exchange for imports may be obtained up to 180 days prior to delivery. Exports are not subject to quotas, and licensing is limited to a small group of products. Exports of strategically important goods require registration of contracts with the MFER. In addition, exports of materials considered strategically important are ef- fected through approved intermediaries (so-called special exporters, consisting mainly of former state trading associations and industry associations).6 A limited number of goods, mainly determined by the Ministry of Environment, may be exported only un- der a licensing regime. The export regimes apply to exports to all countries. Export licenses are issued in accordance with application procedures established by the MFER and are required for a limited number of other products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, cer- tain food products, wildlife, medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medicines, and minerals). Export duties are levied on about one hundred product groups. Specific duties are denominated in ECUs and range from ECU 1 to ECU 80,000 a ton. Ad valorem duties range up to 30 percent (15 per- cent and 20 percent for foods). Specific duties on goods exported under barter trade arrangements are 50 percent higher, as are specific duties on ex- ports that are not subject to the 50 percent surren- der requirement. The export duties are imposed on exports to all countries of the former Soviet Union except for goods delivered to meet state needs in accordance with intergovernmental agreements and that were sold by the state corporations (Ros- kontract and Rosagrokhim). Duties on goods ex- ported to the Baltic countries and the other countries of the former Soviet Union may be paid in rubles, and on goods exported to other coun- tries, in any of the currencies quoted by the CBR, using CBR exchange rates prevailing on the day the payment for the goods is received. A number of discretionary exemptions are granted on a case- by-case basis.7 Export duties are payable when the goods cross the border, but payments may be post- poned for up to 60 days if a bank guarantee for the subsequent payment is provided. Fifty percent of export earnings must be surrendered to the autho- rized banks. There are exceptions for exporters of oil and gas. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, and residents may purchase foreign exchange for all bona fide invisible transactions from authorized banks with proper documentation. There are no re- ^his requirement was eliminated on March 25,1995. 7Oil- and gas-producing enterprises are exempt from export duties for the decentralized portion of their exports. This exemp- tion does not apply to enterprises with foreign investments reg- istered after January 1, 1992 that provide goods for centralized exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 RUSSIAN FEDERATION strictions on the amount of foreign banknotes a per- son may take out of the country, provided that a certificate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. The use of inter- nationally accepted credit cards issued by domestic banks to customers who have foreign currency ac- counts is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling to areas where the ruble is sole legal tender are allowed to take out a maximum of Rub 500,000 in banknotes. The transfer of income from investments by non- residents is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely convert their income into foreign exchange. Pro- ceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services, are subject to the surrender requirement. Authorized banks holding general foreign ex- change licenses are permitted to import and export foreign currency banknotes, treasury notes, coins in circulation, and securities without restriction, pro- vided that they observe customs regulations. Capital Capital transfers of residents, with the exception of repayments of foreign loans, must be authorized by theCBR. External borrowing by juridical persons is sub- ject to control. Both resident and nonresident jurid- ical persons have the right to import or transfer foreign exchange to the country without restric- tion, provided that they observe the regulations. Foreign borrowing by nonresident juridical per- sons is subject to a special license and authoriza- tion by the CBR and also by the Ministry of Finance when a state guarantee is involved. Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange li- cense does not require a special license. Nonresi- dent juridical persons may transfer abroad foreign currency assets up to the amount imported, pro- vided that the foreign exchange is in their posses- sion. Nonresidents may buy or sell foreign currency for investment purposes in exchange for rubles through "I" accounts without limit. Invest- ment in Russian enterprises by nonresidents through joint ventures or through outright owner- ship is not restricted, except in some sectors like banking and exploration of natural resources (special license required) or land ownership (pro- hibited). Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economy, and investments exceeding Rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rights and privileges with regard to property ownership and economic activities as those accorded to resi- dents.8 Foreign direct investments may be national- ized or expropriated only in exceptional cases, in accordance with legislation, and, in such cases the investor would be entitled to compensation. Gold Domestic trade in gold is not permitted, except that monetary gold intended to be part of the coun- try's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the Government at world prices quoted on the London market converted at the market ex- change rate. Exports of gold and swaps require au- thorization of each transaction by the Government, with the transaction made through authorized banks with special licenses. The license for each transaction is issued by the CBR. The Ministry of Fi- nance has issued gold-backed certificates, which can also be bought by nonresidents. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. A ban on the use of foreign currency banknotes in domestic retail operations was introduced. January 28. The Rostov Foreign Currency Ex- change began trading Ukrainian karbovanets. February 4. A special 0.1 percent tax on foreign exchange transactions was introduced in the MICEX. March 1. The MICEX started daily trading ses- sions in Ukrainian karbovanets and regular trading sessions in Kazakh tenge. December 13. French francs began to be traded on the MICEX. Imports and Exports January 1. The duty-free limit for imports by indi- vidual travelers was lowered to $2,000 from $5,000. January 1. The CBR tightened control over the re- patriation of foreign exchange earnings of exporters. February 2. Rules for conducting trade with the Baltic countries and other countries of the former Soviet Union were issued. Goods supplied to the Russian Federation by these countries are not sub- ject to import duties, the VAT, or excises. Exports 8A presidential decree of September 27, 1993 introduced sev- eral provisions to protect foreign investment, including a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign investment for a three- year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect their activities and a provision that any restrictions on activities of foreign investors can be introduced only by laws of the Rus- sian Federation or by presidential decree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 411 from the Russian Federation to these countries (ex- cept individual strategic raw materials) were ex- empted from all taxes and levies. Bilateral trade with these countries conducted on a clearing basis was regulated by bilateral intergovernmental ac- cords. Quotas and licenses for exports from the Russian Federation to these countries were pre- served for 14 major goods and raw materials. When goods are exported from the Russian Federation to these countries, exporters must submit "transaction passports" for exports of major raw materials and, as of March 12, for all exports. November 1. Foreign-owned companies, banks, and organizations that are officially accredited in the Russian Federation were authorized to import unlimited office-related goods duty free, provided they keep them for their own use and export them if and when their accreditation expires. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 17. Regulations on the procedure for reg- istering exporters of strategic raw materials (special exporters) were published. Capital February 10. Nonresidents were allowed to pur- chase up to 10 percent of the issue of domestic trea- sury bills. November 26. Foreign investors were exempted from customs duties on imports of machinery, equipment, and components under contracts signed before January 1, 1993, as well as similar goods financed by credits provided to the Russian Government by foreign countries and international organizations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of March 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, the external value of which is determined freely in the exchange market in which commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus operate. The National Bank of Rwanda does not announce official exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. At the end of March 31, 1995, the average exchange rate quoted by com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus was RF 247.73 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign banknotes. Purchases of traveler's checks are subject to a commission of 2 per mil with a minimum of RF200 and a maximum of RF 20,000. Other outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 3 per mil, with a mini- mum of RF500 and a maximum of RF 20,000. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to autho- rized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transac- tions, the National Bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Commu- nity of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Bu- rundi, and Zaire. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from other member countries of the Prefer- ential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethio- pia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zim- babwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency quoted by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of ori- gin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are gen- erally made by bank transfer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Imports and Import Payments All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Imports of all other goods have been permitted under an open general license (OGL) system since July 1,1992. Res- idents are free to purchase foreign exchange from commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus and to make payments for imports. Certain catego- ries of imports, such as explosives and weapons, re- quire prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungi- cides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma in- voices by the Ministry of Health. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 percent of the f.o.b. value on imports that are sub- ject to inspection by international agencies; the vali- dation fee for fuel is 1 per mil. Before orders are placed, import declarations must be submitted to an authorized bank. The declarations enable im- porters to obtain the required foreign exchange from an authorized bank or a foreign exchange bu- reau. Since March 1990, the National Bank has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside official channels. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma invoice is greater than $10,000 in the case of ordi- nary licenses, and RF 0.5 million are subject to inspection by international agencies for quality and quantity in the country of origin before shipment. Prices are verified at the same time. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clear- ance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are re- placed by CEPGL import notices. The import tariff regime is governed by the tariff code of January 1, 1993. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 413 Payments for Invisibles Residents are free to purchase foreign exchange from commercial banks and foreign exchange bu- reaus and to make payments for invisibles. Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contribu- tions, may be transferred. Transfers of the net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as indepen- dent traders, are also made net of taxes and after de- duction of local expenses. A fee of 0.4 percent is levied on transfers abroad. Official travel requires a travel authorization is- sued by the Government or by an authorized agency. Fixed daily allowances are granted for travel. The frequency of business travel is not re- stricted, but business travel is restricted to licensed businessmen who may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a trip. Other travel by residents requires valid documents justifying the reason for the trip (e.g., education and training abroad or medical treatment). Up to the equivalent of $4,000 is available for tourist travel. Travel by nonresidents is allowed according to the terms stip- ulated in their employment contracts. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may be au- thorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to the equivalent of $100 without declaration. Com- mercial banks are not permitted to export domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, except trade samples and personal and household effects of travelers are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be submitted to an authorized bank. Receipts from exports must be repatriated within seven business days of the date of receipt. Settlements among the member countries of the CEPGL and the PTA are effected through clearing arrange- ments maintained by the central banks of the countries concerned. Exporters may sell their for- eign exchange earnings freely on the domestic foreign exchange market or retain them in ac- counts held with domestic banks. Ninety percent of earnings from exports of coffee and tea must be sold to commercial banks at the average market reference exchange rate quoted by the National Bank of Rwanda. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles may be sold freely to commercial banks or foreign exchange bureaus. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to the equiv- alent of $100 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic banknotes. The law requiring that travelers declare foreign ex- change on entering Rwanda was abolished on De- cember 1,1990. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Transfers of divi- dends to foreign shareholders are allowed. Repatri- ation guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows. There is no time limit for retransfer of these foreign currencies. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Imports and exports of gold require an import or an export declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 6. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus were permitted to set freely the exchange rate for the Rwanda franc against foreign curren- cies. The National Bank of Rwanda ceased to an- nounce official exchange rates for the Rwanda franc. It would calculate and publish for reference purposes each day the average market exchange rate to be applied in transactions. Imports and Import Payments March 6. Rwandan residents were permitted to purchase foreign exchange freely from commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus and to make payments abroad for all imports. Payments for Invisibles March 6. Rwandan residents were freely permit- ted to purchase foreign exchange and make pay- ments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds March 6. Exporters would be permitted to sell their foreign exchange earnings freely on the do- mestic foreign exchange market or to retain them in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 RWANDA accounts held with domestic banks. Ninety percent of export earnings from coffee and tea, however, would have to be sold to the banking system at the average market reference exchange rate quoted by the National Bank of Rwanda. Capital March 6. Prudential limits on banks' open foreign exchange positions of 20 percent of capital were in- troduced for commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,l which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70per US$1. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates were EC$2.6882 and ECS2.2719, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3,1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permission is normally confined to major ex- porters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resid- ing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or re- ceived from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and may be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general li- censes. Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM).2 Payments for autho- rized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of pur- chase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Minis- try of Finance. The Common External Tariff (CET) is between zero and 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are au- thorized to pay on presentation of documentary ev- idence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treat- ment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, pro- vided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Export pro- ceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar foreign cur- ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS rency account. Export duties are levied on a few products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets with the permission of the Min- istry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holding of gold for either numismatic or indus- trial purposes. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 28. The 2 percent tax on gross sales of foreign exchange was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at ECS2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were ECS2.6994 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30,1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and applies to all curren- cies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary prod- ucts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agricultural products are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. When justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. Nonresident (External) Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign ex- change required for travel or business purposes. As funds in an external account are normally convert- ible into a foreign currency, deposits to and with- drawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A foreign currency account is defined as an ac- count denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open foreign currency accounts with au- thorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or insti- tution) wishing to open a foreign currency account must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired for- eign currency. All payments from a foreign cur- rency account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts, to en- sure that the conditions for holding foreign cur- rency are observed. Imports and Import Payments ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise aU currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. All goods, except certain agricultural and manu- factured products, may be imported without a li- cense. Certain other commodities require individual licenses unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. The importation of selected consumer items (e.g., rice, flour, and sugar) in bulk form is a state monopoly. Payments in foreign cur- 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 ST. LUCIA rency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certi- fied customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Goods produced or manufactured in the CARICOM region may be imported duty free. Im- ports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertiliz- ers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and the mem- ber countries of the Organization of Eastern Carib- bean States (OECS); certain imports for use in industry, agriculture, fishing, and air and sea trans- port (under industrial incentive legislation); and items exempted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Ordinance. St. Lucia imple- mented the first stage of the CARICOM Common Ex- ternal Tariff (CET) by lowering rates to a range between zero and 35 percent (except for imports by companies involved in local agricultural produc- tion) on July 1, 1993. A customs service charge of 2 percent of the ci.f. value is levied on all imports except fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.20 percent. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. Per- sons traveling within the CARICOM area using CARI- COM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency) receive the basic al- lowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Fi- nance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. How- ever, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insur- ance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 per- cent for residents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any destination without a license. Proceeds must, in principle, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 percent of the f .o.b. value is levied on banana ex- ports. A special fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally permit- ted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Per- sonal capital transfers, such as inheritances to non- residents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on be- half of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The 1 percent tax on sales of foreign ex- change was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24,1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any for- eign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Fortign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. tances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to external accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; these accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Ca- ribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the ac- counts to the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of Eastern Car- ibbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, of the license. In 1993, import licenses covered about 8 percent of the total import value. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Fi- nance. The import tariff rates range from zero to 35 percent. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a consumption tax, which ranges from ^he OECS comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 5 percent to 50 percent and is levied on the tariff- inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARICOM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the con- sumption tax. A customs service charge of 2 percent is imposed on the c.i.f. value of all imported goods with certain exceptions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medical treatment, education, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equiva- lent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$6,000 a year. These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance when a local medical practitio- ner presents a written statement of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the ac- tual cost of the treatment. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not they are purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. The amount of foreign cur- rency that may otherwise be purchased without the approval of the Ministry of Finance is limited to the equivalent of EC$50 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods in- cluded in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to pre- vent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered within six months. A 2 percent ex- port duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On presenting documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign country, emi- grants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The transfer of funds is normally limited to EC$100,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already residing in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion of proceeds from, such investment is permit- ted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their do- mestic operations requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The banana industry was exempted from the 2 percent customs service charge. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The 3 percent export duty on bananas was reduced to 2 percent. Capital January 1. The annual limit on funds an emigrant is allowed to transfer abroad was increased to EC$100,000 from EC$20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the Italian Lira.1 The central monetary institution is the Istituto di Credito Sammarinese. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. San Marino formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 23,1992. Administration of Control Under the terms of the Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations of May 1991, the Central Bank of San Marino is a foreign exchange bank with the authority to grant foreign exchange dealer sta- tus to Sammarinese financial institutions; currently, Sammarinese banks may maintain accounts only with financial institutions in Italy. As a result, for- eign exchange transactions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buying foreign exchange at rates similar to those quoted in Italy and to con- ducting third-country transactions through Italian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settle- ment effected through authorized Italian intermedi- aries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Adminis- tration). Direct settlements (with residents drawing on their own external accounts) authorized under Italian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990 have not yet been utilized. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. ^he Monetary Agreement between San Marino and Italy, re- newed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to Italian coinage; these coins will be legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in transac- tions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). 421 San Marino does not maintain any bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by do- mestic banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control by the relevant Italian regulations. No li- cense, other than the general business license, is re- quired to engage in trade transactions. Trade is free of regulation except that the importation of electric- ity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Imports into Italy are currently governed by De- cree No. 40 of December 22,1972, as amended. Customs duties on imports from non-European Union (EU) member countries are collected by the EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian value-added tax, but the average effective rate is about 4 percent lower. Sales tax levied on im- ports is rebated when the goods are re-exported. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not subject to surrender re- quirements. There are no taxes or quantitative re- strictions on exports. Exports to Italy are not regulated, while exports to third countries are governed by relevant Italian regulations. Exports from Italy are currently gov- erned by Decree No. 40 of December 22, 1972, as amerided. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other ex- ports do not require authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 Capital SAN MARINO All inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Foreign direct in- vestments, irrespective of the extent of ownership, require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and en- vironmental policy considerations. The purchase and ownership of real property by nonnationals re- quire approval from the Council of Twelve, and ap- proval is granted on merit and on a case-by-case basis. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of profits or capital. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms; that is, invest- ment incentives that are available to domestic in- vestors are equally available to foreign investors. Gold International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Financial and Ex- change Relations. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tom£ and Principe is the Sao Tom6 and Principe Dobra, the external value of which is determined in the interbank market on the basis of demand and supply conditions. On December 31,1994, the exchange rate (middle rate) for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was Db 1,185.31 per US$1. Rates for certain other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purpose of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign ex- change—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the ar- rangements are as follows: when a letter of credit is opened, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission of 0.5 percent to the Central Bank of Sao Tom£ and Principe. A stamp duty of 0.35 percent is also pay- able, as well as a postage levy of Db 140. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 250. On foreign checks for collection, a commission is applied in favor of the collecting foreign correspon- dent and varies from bank to bank. In addition, the International Bank of Sao Tom6 and Principe charges a postage levy of Db 90 for each transac- tion, together with an endorsement stamp fee of Db 30. For collection of export proceeds, a commis- sion of 0.25 percent is charged when the letter of credit is opened, and a fee of 0.125 percent is charged when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 1,200 is also charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Central Bank, which applies the exchange controls flexibly. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through the Central Bank, with the exception of 30 percent of earnings retained by producer-exporters for import payments. (See the section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below.) Import and export licenses are automatically granted and recorded by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Cape Verde. Transactions under this agree- ment have normally covered Sao Tom£ and Prin- cipe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as receipts and payments for various services and transfers. This agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other a reciprocal non-interest-bearing credit of $200,000; it also pro- vides that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance would be settled through appropriate trade transactions. Imports and Import Payments All imports require prior licenses. All registered importers (including productive entities) are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Fuels and lubri- cants are imported by the public fuel enterprise, and medicines by the public pharmaceutical enter- prise and the private pharmaceutical sector. Import licenses are automatically granted by the Director- ate of External Commerce. However, the Chamber of Commerce, in collaboration with the Ministry of Commerce, designates eligible importers. Licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Reg- istration Bulletins, which are valid for six months but may be extended if necessary. The license spec- ifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the cur- rency of settlement. However, legal importers may import products without a license if imports are to be settled with their own foreign exchange, and im- ports are registered for customs operations. When importers open letters of credit, the International Bank requires them to lodge a non-interest-bearing deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the letters of credit; the re- mainder may be financed with a 120-day loan. Pre- payment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Payments for other invisi- bles are approved within limits established by the Central Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when lo- cal facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for purposes of tourism are limited, al- though air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies estab- lished in SaoTom£ and Principe before indepen- dence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to peri- odicals and books or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 1 million. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student is granted permission to transfer up to the equivalent of Db 150,000 a month, or Db 425,000 a quarter, for expenses related to courses taken abroad; addi- tional amounts must be approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 0.5 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the ex- port. All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the International Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with banks, includ- ing those abroad (if they are correspondent banks of the Central Bank), and may use the balances to meet their import requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code, which was implemented on Oc- tober 15,1992. Foreign capital investments, exclud- ing the extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investment. Repatriation of profits is permitted up to 10 percent a year of the value of the investment. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Govern- ment and for the amortization of private sector in- vestments in activities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assis- tance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special au- thorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement December 2. The peg to the U.S. dollar was discon- tinued, and the external value of the dobra was al- lowed to be determined by market forces. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The annual import plan and the system of advance import registration vouchers were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Ara- bian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent around the fixed relation- ship are allowed; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; its rate against the riyal is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. On De- cember 31, 1994, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; the selling rate for U.S. dollars to banks was SRls 3.75 per US$1, and the buying rate from banks was SRls 3.74 per US$1. These rates, which have not changed since June 1, 1986, serve as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks of up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22,1961. Administration of Control In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Saudi Arabia notified the Fund on September 5, 1990 that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions in respect of Iraq and on September 15,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency The use of the currency of Israel is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. 1In addition, all imports from and all exports to this country are prohibited; payments may neither be made to it nor received from it for any type of transaction, whether current or capital. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for rea- sons of religion, health, or national security. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates rang- ing between zero and 12 percent; for a short list of imports, the rate is 20 percent, and for tobacco products, 30 percent. Imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempt, provided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is ef- fected in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by cit- izens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Certain imported items that are subsidized by the Government may not be re-exported. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and ex- port Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requir- ing them to seek approval before floating loans denominated in riyals. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Monetary Agency before inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal- denominated syndicated transactions inside or out- side Saudi Arabia. Prior approval from the Mone- tary Agency is also required for local banks to participate in either riyal-syndicated transactions ar- ranged abroad or foreign currency-syndicated trans- actions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for certain bene- fits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of Na- tional Industry. Foreign capital invested in indus- 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 SAUDI ARABIA trial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without paying any customs duty or tax, im- port and export gold in any form, except manufac- tured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12 percent customs duty; gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. Changes During 1994 Prescription of Currency May 5. Restrictions on the use of South African currency were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of December 31, 2994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market for the currency concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks charge an exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mil on purchases and sales of for- eign exchange, depending on the amount, other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 per mil on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is avail- able to residents only for imports of a specified cat- egory of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning. Forward cover may be pro- vided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must corre- spond to the due date of foreign exchange settle- ment stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be ex- tended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the issu- ance, publicizing, and tendering of transferable se- curities and real property, and applications for investment abroad, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas depart- ments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial ^The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are free of commission. Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit, which has delegated a part of the approval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The Ministry of Commerce and Handi- crafts issues export authorizations and prior import authorizations for listed products. Prescription of Currency Because Senegal is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Si- erra Leone may be settled through the West African Clearing House arrangement. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted. Nonresident accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French franc notes, or ban- knotes issued by central banks that maintain an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident ac- 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 SENEGAL counts. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Is- rael are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored-nation treatment of all Senegal's commercial partners was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restrictions and prior authorization requirements for certain im- ports are being phased out. The requirement for prior authorization for imports of cereals, jewelry, newspapers and documentaries, kola nuts, jute bags, prerecorded tapes, and mineral and chemical fertilizers was abolished in June 1994. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agricultural policy, sanitation, or protection of certain products (cement, fertilizers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c.i.f.). The exchange au- thorizations entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange but not earlier than eight days before the goods are shipped to Senegal if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presenta- tion of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports, with the exception of down payments, are permitted only after the proper documents for customs clearance are submitted. Advance pay- ments for imports require authorization, and im- porters may not acquire foreign exchange until the contractual date of the payments. All imports, except those in transit and those in- tended for the free zone of Dakar, are subject to a service fee of 6 percent or 12 percent, depending on their customs classification. All imports valued (f.o.b.) at more than CFAF 1.5 million are subject to inspection by international agencies with respect to quality, quantity, price, and tariff classification. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange approval. Payments for in- visibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized inter- mediary banks are empowered to effect abroad payments of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of resi- dents without requiring documents. Transfers of in- come accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted when a request for exchange authorization is sub- mitted to the Ministry of Finance. Limitations on allowances for travelers are ad- ministered in a nonrestrictive manner, and all bona fide requests in excess of the established limits are granted. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than banknotes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the respective ministries of finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident fi- nancial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All residents travel- ing to countries that are not members of the WAMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in their name. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings and other means of payment issued in Senegal requires documentation demonstrating ei- ther the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presenting the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 429 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, fine pearls, pre- cious and similar stones, plated or coated precious metals, articles made of these metals, and precious metal products), exports do not require prior autho- rization. The requirement for prior authorization for exports of cereals, groundnuts, fresh tomatoes, and jewelry was abolished in June 1994. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on indus- trial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, including mem- bers of the WAMU and the Operations Account countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorised intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account area. Resi- dents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an au- thorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require the ap- proval of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substi- tuted for, securities whose issuance or offering for sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to France, Mo- naco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with for- eign private persons and foreign firms and institu- tions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also ap- ply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrow- ing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has two months from receiving the declaration to request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Fi- nance, and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. Including those made by companies in Senegal that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 SENEGAL (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The re- payment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt because it did not require authorization. The Investment Code provides various facili- ties and benefits for approved foreign invest- ments in Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require au- thorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning to conduct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization from the Minister of Commerce and Handicrafts; imports of ornaments require the prior approval of the Directorate of Handicrafts and the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Administration of Control February 28. Ordinance Nos. 94^28 and 94-29, re- lating to financial relations with foreign entities and disputes pertaining to exchange control violations, respectively, were promulgated in order to stan- dardize regulations within the WAMU. Imports and Import Payments January 10. The maximum import duty rate was reduced to 45 percent from 75 percent and a mini- mum duty of 5 percent was established. The duty on petroleum was reduced to 35 percent from 45 percent. February 15. Ordinance No. 94r-25 reduced the customs stamp tax applicable to all imported goods to a uniform rate of 5 percent. June 1. Prior import authorization was abolished for the following products: cereals, gold jewelry and other jewelry, newspapers, kola nuts, jute bags, prerecorded tapes, and mineral and chemical fertil- izers. The COSEC levy on imports used in the man- ufacture of goods for export was abolished. September 1. Prior authorization for imports of to- mato paste and polypropylene bags was abolished. November 5. Prior authorization for imports of ce- ment was abolished. December 10. Restrictions on the import of vegeta- ble oils were abolished. Payments from Invisibles June 10. The monopoly of the COSENAM in mar- itime transportation was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 31. Following the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994, Ordinance No. 94-19 eliminated export tax measures. June 1. Prior authorization for exports of cereals, groundnuts, fresh tomatoes, and jewelry was abol- ished. The COSEC levy on exports was eliminated. September 10. Prior authorization for exports of tomato concentrate was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Ru- pee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 per SDR1. Exchange rates for various currencies (in- cluding the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Cen- tral Bank of the Seychelles circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the pound sterling were SR 7.7377 and SR 7.8152, respectively, per £1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on purchases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and French francs. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the re- spective currencies. Commercial banks are required to transfer 15 percent of their gross inflows of for- eign exchange to the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3,1978. Administration of Control Exchange controls are maintained in the form of administrative allocations of foreign exchange for the making of payments. The Ministry of Finance partially controls foreign trade and domestic mar- keting through a mechanism of import and price controls. Import controls are exercised over pre- scribed goods by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance, while price controls are administered by the Consumer Relations Unit on behalf of the Ministry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external commercial payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports. Importers, other than individuals, are re- quired to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority. For prescribed goods, they must also apply for import permits from the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance. Certain prescribed goods (including sugar, flour, oil, margarine, rice, and animal feed) can be im- ported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to a trade tax at rates rang- ing up to 600 percent, with the bulk of imported commodities falling, in the range of 25 percent to 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require permits issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance. Res- idents may export goods without exchange control formality to any country. There are no regulations governing the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited (trading is defined as both buying and selling). Foreign currency may be accepted by busi- nesses in payment for goods and services. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of foreign-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limitation. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent resi- dents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 SEYCHELLES investment, additional investments in existing enti- ties in the form of loans, or equity capital) is freely permitted, provided that such investments do not involve ownership of land. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, that is, agri- culture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. Additionally, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has is- sued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 issued in April 1984 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization; (4) a coin in the de- nomination of SR 500 issued in February 1986 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in June 1986 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence; (6) a coin in the denomi- nation of SR 1,000 issued in June 1987 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the fifth of June 1977 Liberation; (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 issued in December 1988 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank; (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in April 1990 to mark EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan; (9) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in De- cember 1993 to commemorate the fifteenth anniver- sary of the Central Bank; and (10) a series of coins with wildlife motifs issued in June 1994, including the magpie robin in the denominations of SR 250 and SR 50, and the milkweed butterfly in the de- nominations of SR 250, SR 150, and SR 50. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leo- nean Leone. Exchange rates are freely determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign ex- change with customers and trade among them- selves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (the central bank) on a freely negotiable basis. The central bank determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, including for customs valuation pur- poses, which is based on the weighted-average rate of commercial bank and foreign exchange bureau transactions in the previous week. On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling rates were Le 606.92 and Le 619.06, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking and foreign exchange bureau sectors. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the De- partment of Finance, in consultation with the cen- tral bank, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Foreign exchange transactions are subject to ex- change control. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. The West African Clearing House provides for settle- ments with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) as well as with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mau- ritania, and Nigeria. Receipts from exports to coun- tries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the im- porting country or in any specified currency.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents in Sierra Leone are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any convertible currency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which minimum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the com- mercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these ac- counts may be converted into leones to meet the ac- count holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permit- ted without prior approval from the Bank of Sierra Leone, provided that all requirements in respect of current account transactions are met. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. In addition, there are blocked accounts, the balances on which are blocked at a bank by order of the Secretary of State for Finance. Imports and Import Payments All goods may be imported freely without a li- cense. Authority to approve transactions is dele- gated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be supported by shipping documents and submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources are permitted without letters of credit established with a local commercial bank. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except pe- troleum and goods specifically exempted by the Sec- retary of State for Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the Government. A sales tax of 20 percent of the landed value is levied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated businesses are subject to a tax of 2 percent as advance payment of income taxes. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 SIERRA LEONE Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowances in excess of $5,000 a trip must be referred to the cen- tral bank for approval. Commercial banks are authorized to approve school fees up to the full amount payable directly to the school upon presentation of bills by the schools concerned. They may also approve educational and maintenance expenses abroad of $10,000 a year and medical treatment expenses of up to $10,000. Appli- cations for payments in excess of the amounts pre- scribed must be submitted to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. Applications for foreign ex- change in excess of limits, including allowances for medical treatment abroad, are approved upon sub- mission of documentary proof of need. A maximum of 40 percent of an expatriate's gross salary may be remitted abroad for family mainte- nance purposes. At the end of their contract, for- eigners are allowed to remit all of their savings. Profits and dividends earned from foreign invest- ment may be repatriated on submission of docu- mentary evidence that capital was originally brought into the country. Public sector employees on official business may take out foreign exchange from Sierra Leone up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out with them up to Le 50,000 in Sierra Leo- nean currency notes. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for six months, are issued by the Department of Mines. All exporters are required to complete export forms. Commercial exports must be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank and the central bank. Exports of the following articles are prohib- ited: those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewelry or orna- ments up to a value not exceeding the leone equiva- lent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Licensed exporters of diamonds are allowed to transact their business in U.S. dollars and must pay an administrative fee of 1.0 percent and an income tax of 1.5 percent, which are based on the value of the diamonds exported and payable in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced are not subject to the repatri- ation requirement. Licensed exporters of gold must pay a 2.5 percent royalty on their exports. All goods exported from Sierra Leone, except for those exempted by the Secretary of State for Fi- nance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which is undertaken by an in- spection company appointed by the Government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1 percent before clearing their goods through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles can be offered for sale to authorized dealers. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the central bank to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by non- residents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. The Sierra Leonean Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securi- ties. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securi- ties or the person for whom he or she serves as nominee resides outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without per- mission. Where permission has been given for secu- rities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons residing abroad, the company is usually re- quired to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Income tax and customs duty concessions are granted to foreign and domes- tic companies undertaking industrial or agricul- tural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business un- der the Noncitizens Trade and Business Act of 1969. Residents can hold foreign exchange in cash form, offer it for sale to an authorized dealer or a foreign exchange bureau, or deposit it in a foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 435 account. Exemption is granted for authorized deal- ers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held before June 24,1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the central bank. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Ster- ling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from de- posit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national tempo- rarily residing in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an au- thorized dealer or by the central bank Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leo- nean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Im- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Changes During 1994 Prescription of Currency March 1. The bilateral payments agreement with China was terminated. Imports and Import Payments January 25. The sales tax levied uniformly on do- mestically manufactured and imported goods was raised to 20 percent from 17.5 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The administrative fee on diamond ex- ports was lowered to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles April 1. The requirement that arriving nonresi- dent travelers must convert a certain amount of for- eign exchange to domestic currency was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dol- lar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and its exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Mon- etary Authority of Singapore (MAS) monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, with the objec- tive of promoting noninflationary sustainable eco- nomic growth. The closing interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1994 were S$1.4002 and S$1.4067, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on the currencies' exchange rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. Banks are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, matu- rity, or type of transaction. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an ac- tive short-term foreign exchange swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9,1968. Administration of Control There are no formal exchange controls, but the MAS retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products under its control. Financial as- sets owned by residents of Haiti, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Mon- tenegro) are blocked. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are duti- able. Customs duties are levied on imports of li- quors, tobacco, petroleum, and motor cars. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Singapore is a party to the Agreement on the Common Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The CEPT Scheme came into operation on January 1, 1993. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that may be used for travel abroad. Re- mittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and non- resident travelers may take out any amount in for- eign or Singapore banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Singapore observes the export prohibitions gov- erned by the United Nations Security Council Reso- lutions. Certain exports originating in Singapore— for example, textiles and textile products—are sub- ject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the members of the European Union. Export licenses are required for substances that deplete the ozone, timber, and rub- ber, but there is no restriction on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange controls in 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 437 1978, Singapore residents, including corporations, are allowed to make payments in all currencies to any country outside Singapore without restriction. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign ex- change transactions in all currencies. However, banks, merchant banks, and finance and insurance companies must consult the Monetary Authority of Singapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must also have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian monetary units (AMUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with the Asian Currency Union because of the absence of mini- mum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An AMU is a separate accounting unit of financial in- stitutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income from transacting with nonresidents in foreign currency; these institutions operate in the Asian dollar market. Transactions in Singapore dollars cannot be booked in AMUs. There are no restrictions on either direct or port- folio investments in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Government approval is required for foreign in- vestment in residential and other properties (includ- ing vacant land) that has been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential units in build- ings of six or more stories and in approved con- dominium developments without such approval. Foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accom- modate their senior personnel. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign shareholding in local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and compa- nies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or ex- port licenses, and any person in Singapore can deal freely in gold. For imports, gold bars weighing 1 ki- logram and above and 10-tola bars are exempt from the 3 percent goods and services tax (GST) if they are meant for re-exports. Movement of gold be- tween two bonded warehouses in Singapore is also exempt from the GST. Gold may also be traded in the local market and the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" ba- sis for delivery of 995 fine gold. Kilobars of 999.9 fineness are most commonly traded, while 10-tola bars are also becoming popular. Spot gold prices for settlement in Singapore are derived by adjusting the "loco-London" price with the location pre- mium, which takes into account the cost of trans- portation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also available on the Singapore International Mone- tary Exchange. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak Koruna. The official exchange rate is pegged to a basket of two currencies and determined in fixing sessions conducted by the National Bank of Slova- kia.1 On December 31, 1994, the central rate was Sk 31.277 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Bank is responsible for the adminis- tration of exchange controls and regulations in co- ordination with the Ministry of Finance. In general, the Ministry of Finance has authority over govern- mental credits and over budgetary and subsidized organizations, civic associations, churches, founda- tions, and juridical persons who are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities. The National Bank has authority over the activities of all registered enter- prises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Except for trade with the Czech Republic, settle- ments are effected in convertible currency. Since Feb- ruary 1993, commercial transactions with the Czech Republic must be effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two countries. Transactions are converted from the currency of the contract into clearing ECUs at a rate that may differ by up to 5 percent from the market cross rate against the ECU set by the central banks. If the balances on the account outstanding at the end of each month ex- ceed clearing ECU 130 million, the excess amount is settled by the fifteenth of the following month. Pay- ments by legal persons and enterprises in connection with obligations incurred before February 8,1993 are effected through another set of clearing accounts de- nominated in clearing koruny converted to ECUs at the exchange rate of February 8, 1993. These ac- counts are settled every three months. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Slovak resident individuals (including unregis- tered entrepreneurs) may open interest-bearing for- lrThe currencies are the deutsche mark (weight 60 percent) and the U.S. dollar (weight 40 percent). eign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign ex- change. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident en- terprises that had outstanding foreign exchange ac- counts on December 31,1990 have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new foreign exchange ac- counts, however, may be opened by enterprises af- ter December 31,1990, with only a prior permit from the National Bank that exempts enterprises from the 100 percent surrender requirement. Bal- ances on these accounts may be freely used to fi- nance enterprises' activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Slovak Republic. All payments abroad from these accounts for invisibles, except transfers relating to inheritance and alimony, require a per- mit from the National Bank. These permits are granted only in exceptional cases. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts, in the Slovak Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private individual. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and ammu- nition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic li- censing system accompanied by variable levies applies to imports of 12 agricultural products and coal. All imports, except those from the Czech Re- public, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging from zero to 15 percent, with a few excep- tions. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General- ized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction from 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 439 the applicable customs duties. All consumer goods are also subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 percent. Advance payments for imports are restricted to 15 percent for imports exceeding Sk 1 million. A resident individual is required to repatriate for- eign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account foreign exchange (including gold, with the excep- tion of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Sk 5,000. Resident enterprises are normally re- quired to repatriate, without delay, foreign ex- change receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export li- censes for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), to facilitate voluntary re- straints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or to preserve natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgi- cal materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materials) for the do- mestic market. For the two latter groups of prod- ucts, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a cer- tain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Slovak residents may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign currency accounts to make invisible payments. In addition, the annual limit on foreign exchange al- lowances for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of Sk 16,000 (effective January 1, 1995). Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to different allowances, de- pending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to all countries. A special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Repatriation of wage savings in koruny by nonres- ident workers must be authorized by the National Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, *he exportation and importation of koruna banknotes abroad are restricted. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of foreign exchange assets, including foreign currencies, by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain trade credits. Financial credits from abroad require a spe- cial permit from the National Bank. Foreign direct investments abroad are subject to approval from the National Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by non- residents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the National Bank. For- eign exchange equity participation of foreign inves- tors can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a resident commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, they are allowed to re- patriate freely the full value of their capital partici- pation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the exception of gold coins) to financial institutions dealing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisition. Without a foreign exchange license, nonresidents may export inherited gold coins, pro- vided that they submit a certificate confirming that- the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the coun- try. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement July 14. The basket against which the official ex- change rate of the koruna was pegged changed from five currencies to two currencies (the deutsche mark, 60 percent, and the U.S. dollar, 40 percent). Imports and Exports March 1. A temporary surcharge at the rate of 10 percent was introduced on consumer goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was increased to the equivalent of Sk 9,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 Changes During 1995 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was increased to Sk 16,000 from Sk 9,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Slovenia is the Tolar, which was introduced on October 8,1991 and replaced the Yu- goslav dinar at parity. The external value of the to- lar is determined in the exchange market by demand and supply conditions. The Bank of Slove- nia (BOS) may also participate in the foreign ex- change market and may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the Government and commercial banks. Residents may conduct unlim- ited exchange transactions among themselves, and households may conduct foreign exchange transac- tions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. The BOS does not prescribe spreads between buying and selling rates for banks' transactions with the public, and banks are free to set their own commissions. On December 31,1994, the official exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was SIT 126.4 per US$1. The BOS publishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for cus- toms valuation and accounting purposes. There is no forward market for foreign exchange, but for- ward foreign exchange transactions are not prohib- ited. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange market operations are gov- erned by the Law on Foreign Exchange Business (promulgated on June 25,1991). The law introduced a free foreign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices and stipulated the rules and regulations for foreign exchange transactions. The Law on Foreign Trade Transactions, approved by Parliament in February 1993, sets out the rules and regulations governing foreign trade activities. It came into force on March 27,1993. Prescription of Currency Slovenia maintains a payments agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, under which trade between the two countries may be set- tled through accounts in local currency or in foreign currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts counts without restriction. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts with proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or of goods and services to resi- dents. Balances (including accrued interest) in these accounts may be converted into convertible curren- cies and repatriated. Transfers of inheritance are al- lowed under conditions of reciprocity. Domestic legal entities are, in principle, not allowed to main- tain foreign currency accounts; exceptions are pro- vided for in the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. To accept foreign cash payments, as well as to pay with foreign cash, is restricted. Residents are re- quired, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Ex- change Business, to obtain permission from the BOS. Imports and Import Payments Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control only, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammunition) for se- curity and public health reasons, in accordance with international conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products. Under the system managed by the Chamber of Commerce, quotas are frequently revised and allocated to Slovenian im- porters. In general, the quotas are distributed among the applicants in the volume of production (for a producer) or turnover (for a trader). Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are prohibited, in accordance with the relevant UN resolution. In the interim, the tariff regime under the Cus- toms Tariff Law of the former Socialist Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia is in force.1 A new law on customs tariffs has been adopted but has not come into effect. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for in- visibles, except that residents are not allowed to transfer abroad receipts from services (including in- terest), and earnings must be spent in Slovenia. Resident individuals and nonresidents are al- lowed to open and operate foreign currency ac- lrThe new law is expected to come into force at the beginning of 1996. Under the new law, the 1 percent customs clearance tax and the 1 percent equalization tax are expected to be eliminated. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 SLOVENIA Exports and Export Proceeds In accordance with the sanctions of the United Nations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), exports from the FRY are prohibited. Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accor- dance with the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. Exports of textile products to the European Union (EU) are governed by the Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Slovenia on Trade in Textile Products, initialed on July 23,1993; textile products originating in Slove- nia are free from quantitative limits. The EU im- poses tariff ceilings for only five categories of products. Export taxes are levied on the following products: unworked wood, 15 percent; worked wood, 10 percent; and scrap metal, 25 percent. Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia as credit arrangements. Once received, ex- port proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to import- ers at a freely negotiated exchange rate or to use the proceeds for payments abroad. After that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Exporters are exempt from customs duties pay- able on raw materials and intermediate and semi- processed goods used to produce export goods, provided that the value of exports is at least 30 percent higher than the value of imports if there is no domestic production of imported goods. issue guarantees and borrow abroad only in accor- dance with specific laws passed by Parliament. Resident juridical persons may maintain ac- counts abroad only in specific cases as provided for by law and with the permission of the BOS. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad. Resident companies may extend loans to nonresi- dent persons only with profits obtained from abroad. The Law on Foreign Investments of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is still be- ing applied in Slovenia. A new law is under consideration. Deposit money banks are required to hold for- eign exchange deposits abroad as cover against do- mestically held foreign exchange deposits of domestic and foreign individual persons. The re- quired deposits range from 5 percent to 100 percent, depending on the maturity of domestically held de- posits. They are also required to hold deposits abroad in an amount equal to 35 percent of their av- erage monthly turnover of convertible payments over the preceding three months. Short-term bank borrowing abroad is restricted. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control June 6. A free trade arrangement with the Slovak Republic came into effect. August 20. A free trade arrangement with the Czech Republic came into effect. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on proceeds from invisibles. Prescription of Currency December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Croatia was terminated. Capital In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreign Credit Transactions, resident juridical per- sons may borrow abroad on commercial terms without restriction. The Government may, however, Capital July 6. Restrictions on the transferability of tolar bal- ances held by certain nonresidents were eliminated. September 5. Short-term bank borrowing was restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of its relationship to a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month. The Central Bank provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in dealings with the public were US$0.3025 and US$0.3007, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. A forward cover facility exists mainly for bona fide trade or trade-related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent resi- dents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars for periods of one to six months. The Cen- tral Bank also provides the commercial banks with daily limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commercial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to ten basis points above or below the Central Bank's forward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24,1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank through the Exchange Control (Foreign Ex- change) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain types of applications for exchange control approval, up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are re- garded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or the Cen- tral Bank. Applications for temporary resident sta- tus are normally approved for citizens of foreign countries who intend to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or have already resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real estate or a business indicates per- manent resident status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. Temporary resi- dent status does not release a person from the obli- gation to comply with all provisions of the ex- change control regulations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board De- cision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Solomon Islands notified the Fund, on October 14, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current in- ternational transactions in respect of the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to persons resident outside Solomon Islands may be met only by payments in that currency. Export pro- ceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required in order for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Balances on such ac- counts may be transferred abroad with the ap- proval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports, provided evidence that they are properly due overseas is submitted. Authorized dealers are 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SOLOMON ISLANDS permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 without reference to the Central Bank. The rate of import levy is set at 8 percent. valued at US$75 or less (a cubic meter) and of 32 percent if valued at more than US$75 (a cubic meter). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized im- ports are not restricted. Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to pur- chase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing per- manently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided the total amount transferred does not ex- ceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their pass- ports and airline tickets. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods other than round logs without exchange control formality, but they must comply with the terms of the General Author- ity issued by the Central Bank. The essential condi- tions of this General Authority require that payments for exported goods be received within three months of the date of exportation, that the ex- port price be no lower than the price an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive for the goods for export to the destination involved at the date when those goods were sold or contracted to be sold under open market conditions, and that the proceeds be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. If exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must ap- ply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Au- thority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of passengers. Exports of round logs require Specific Authority from the Central Bank. The condition for issuance of a specific authority to export round logs is a mar- ket price certificate issued by the Ministry of For- estry, Conservation and Environment. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 27 percent if Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditures. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned in- vestment capital, repayment of loans contracted overseas, and the remittance of temporary resi- dents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. For port- folio investments, approval from the Central Bank is needed before permanent residents may acquire or dispose of foreign securities. Approval is not normally given for the acquisition of overseas port- folio investments. Restrictions are not normally im- posed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired before March 1,1977. Approval from the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas must have approval from the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. If initial or in- creased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit is- sued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Soma- lia's main trading partners. The official exchange rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the rela- tive rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. The official exchange rate applies to im- ports of goods and services and debt-service pay- ments of the Government. The exchange rate in the free market is negotiated freely between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, ex- port/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,2 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the two commercial banks operating as the autho- rized dealers of the Central Bank in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sec- tor. The commercial banks also do not conduct for- ward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although they are not prohibited from doing so. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency charged with imple- menting and operating trade controls. The state- trading organization, the National Grain Agency, is responsible for importing and distributing certain commodities received under aid programs. Ex- change controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 2); however, res- lAs of December 31,1994, the IMF had not received from the Somali authorities the information needed for a description of the exchange and trade system. 2Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian rivals, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. idents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and ex- ternal accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, interna- tional institutions, and nonresidents. External ac- counts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both residents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be deb- ited for any external payment. Residents may trans- fer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations as well as for merchandise im- port payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through external ac- counts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers holding ex- port/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jew- elry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The National Petroleum Agency is responsi- ble for importing all fuels and fuel products. Capa- ble entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted to import and distribute petroleum prod- ucts provided that they have safe storage and distri- bution facilities. All payments for private imports must be ef- fected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at a commer- cial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign cur- rency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a sus- pense account until the time of settlement of the 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 SOMALIA letter of credit. A noninterest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is re- tained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds provided by the Italian Government under the Commodity Import Program are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit requests for foreign exchange, accompanied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount requested. Before June 1990, the official exchange rate applied to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceeded the available funds, for- eign exchange was allocated proportionally among importers. Since then these funds have been sold through a Dutch auction mechanism (bidders pur- chasing foreign exchange at their bid price), with the official exchange rate serving as the floor price. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel are prohibited. To prevent un- authorized capital transfers, payments for current invisibles through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign ex- change on their own account, are subject to licens- ing. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the following limits: (1) education allowances, $1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, $200 a person a trip; and (3) medical treat- ment, $3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. All foreign travelers are required to pay an airport departure tax of $20 or equivalent of $20 in any foreign currency, and Somali nationals are re- quired to pay the tax equivalent to $10 in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previ- ously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and min- erals is subject to prior approval; the state monop- oly in exports of hides and skins was discontinued in 1990. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers of bananas and livestock may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70 percent of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under letter-of-credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of ex- ports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on ex- ports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Exporters of services may retain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in ex- ternal accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resi- dent travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial banks at the official exchange rate. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing un- less they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Investment Law stipulates priorities for foreign investments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from the transfer of convertible currency, in the form of ma- chinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in connection with the intended investment). There are no outright and sectoral restrictions to foreign investment or phase- out provisions; nor does the law preclude the possi- bility of participating or acquiring stock in an exist- ing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for ap- proval in each case within a 60-day period by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 447 Foreign Investment Board, which has final author- ity over all matters concerning foreign investment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which pro- vides advice and guidance to foreign investors on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional frame- work, and assists at the incorporation and setting- up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in convertible currency. There are no restrictions on reinvestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be transferred in any subsequent year. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the in- vestor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above- mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after taxes are paid. The Foreign Investment Law restricts the possibility of expropri- ation to cases where public interest cannot be satis- fied by other measures. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the investment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force be- tween the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Con- vention for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. If no agreement is applicable, the law provides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agreement or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Su- preme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, res- idents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on be- half of the monetary authorities and industrial us- ers. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that originate in member countries of the European Union are ex- empt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of March 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but do intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks. The principal in- tervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On March 31, 1995, the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were R 3.5905 buying and R 3.5916 selling, respectively, per US$1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents. Authorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign ex- change commitments and accruals due to or by nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Subject to certain limita- tions, forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover against U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions, with the margin based on an interest rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term offshore financing of capital goods imports and af- fected indebtedness that has been converted into long-term loans. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 15,1973. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated many of its powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export permits, when required, are gen- erally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Ministers of Trade and Industry. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, when advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Re- serve Bank.1 Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia but not in Swaziland.2 Settlements by or to residents of the Common Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a nonresi- dent account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into nonresident accounts and emigrant blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all au- thorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Common Mone- tary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any pur- pose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any for- eign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the Common Monetary Area and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Any cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at 1Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to SBVa percent of the ex fac- tory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it. ^Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland, Maloti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar notes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal ten- der in South Africa. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency refer to any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but not to the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a natural or juridical person whose usual place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Com- mon Monetary Area. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 449 the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living ex- penses while visiting South Africa, for other speci- fied payments to residents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23,1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The per- mits are valid for imports from any country. Im- ports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swazi- land, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. Importers are automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when re- quired. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). The system of import quotas, which affects most agricultural and a number of manufactured products, is being phased out and re- placed with selective tariff measures. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a value-added tax; locally produced goods are also subject to the tax. Import surcharges at the rate of 15 percent are levied on essential goods and at the rate of 40 percent on nonessential goods. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may, without consulting the Reserve Bank, approve current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, and roy- alties, that accrue in South Africa, provided that (1) the Department of Trade and Industry and the Re- serve Bank have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remittance of profits and dividends is based on normal trading profits gener- ated after January 1, 1984 and does not involve local credit facilities. The Reserve Bank gives favor- able consideration to such transfers when the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. In- come earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their country of residence, and limited amounts of exchange to pay for such items as membership fees and family maintenance are authorized. There is an indicative limit on the travel allow- ance of R 23,000 a year for an adult (R 11,500 for a child under 12). Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 6,000 for an adult (R 3,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring coun- tries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe). In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for overseas business trips at a rate not exceeding R 1,800 a day, up to R 30,000 in a calen- dar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring countries listed above is R 12,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 900 a day. Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Residents and contract workers leaving South Af- rica for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take up to one-third of their allowance in foreign banknotes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 500, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 500 in Re- serve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. These limitations on the exportation of Reserve Bank notes do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring coun- tries, who are permitted to take with them reason- able amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds To be sold outside the Southern African Customs Union, exports of specified commodities consid- ered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SOUTH AFRICA days of the date of accrual. To ensure that exchange control procedures are more effectively applied when export proceeds are repatriated, except ex- ports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the full proceeds are received in advance, ex- porters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive payments based on the f.o.b. value of exports, the local content of products, the extent of processing involved, and the movement in the real effective exchange rate in terms of a basket of currencies of South Africa's ma- jor trading partners since 1979. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless an exemption is obtained. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries outside the Common Mon- etary Area may bring in R 500 in South African Re- serve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Capital5 All inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,6 although inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign ex- change accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are generally not permit- 5Securities are defined not only as quoted stocks, shares, de- bentures, and rights, but also as unquoted shares in public com- panies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. "Scrip" and "share certifi- cates" include any temporary or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6Domestic entrepreneurs are generally given approval for bor- rowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months, except for speculation or consumer credit Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South African foreign trade and for other approved purposes. ted. South African stockbrokers may engage in arbi- trage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects, or for the expansion of existing projects owned or con- trolled by South Africans, are considered by the Re- serve Bank on their merits. Investments designed to foster exports and maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete statement of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Af- rica may, through the same channel, be retrans- ferred abroad within the first five years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to financial rand ac- counts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons). Any bal- ance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. Up to R 350,000 per fiscal year of income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a nonresident ac- count. A family or single person emigrating can ex- port one motor vehicle with a maximum value of R 75,000, provided that the vehicle was purchased at least one year before emigration. Emigrants can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 75,000, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in their possession for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given to nonresident- owned branches and subsidiaries for the transfer of open or approved loan account balances;7 current profits earned after January 1,1984; and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided such remittances do not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical exportation from South Africa of non- resident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. 7Subject, however, to the 1994 Debt Arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 451 Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes and investment. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary au- thorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold must be approved in ad- vance by the Reserve Bank. Approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers for exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler, up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and for ex- ports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except those to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Further- more, after approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including cer- tain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of production. With ef- fect from October 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of produc- tion. As a special concession, the industry may re- tain approximately one-third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1994 Payments for Invisibles September 1. The indicative annual limit on allow- ances that authorized dealers may provide for traveling to countries, other than neighboring coun- tries, was increased as follows: (1) the basic tourist allowance, to R 23,000 from R 20,000 for an adult and to R 11,500 from R 10,000 for a child; and (2) the limit on additional allowances for business travel, to R 34,000 from R 30,000. August 31. The amount of foreign banknotes resi- dents and contract workers are permitted to take out of South Africa was limited to up to one-third of the applicable travel allowance (previously, the full amount was permitted to be taken out). Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 13. The financial rand system was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Neth- erlands, and Portugal in the exchange rate and in- tervention mechanism (ERM)1 of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On March 6, 1995, the maximum intervention rates3 were as follows: Official rates for specified currencies4 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. On December 31, 1994, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 114.62 per US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All future transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming in- directly from prudential rules on maximum net foreign exchange exposure. Under existing regula- tions, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage, determined by the Bank of Spain, of the consolidated own resources of each banking group. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as of July 15,1986. Specified Intervention Rates per. Spanish Peseta Upper limit Lower limit Exchange Control Territory 100 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Austrian schillings 1,404.1000 1,041.3000 Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos 478.9440 2,589.8000 9,878.5000 2,945.4000 238.1750 8,767.3000 96.3670 365.2080 1,920.7000 7,326.0000 2,184.4000 176.6410 6,502.2000 71.4890 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the U.S. dol- lar, and the ECU. 1 Austria became a member of the European Union on January 1,1995 and joined the ERM of the EMS on January 9,1995. Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Effective intervention rates may vary within the limits of these maximum intervention rates, depending on daily fluctua- tions in the cross rates between currencies. The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Me- lilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including prior verification and remaining administrative au- thorization corresponding to the exportation and importation of certain means of payment, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish resi- dents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and supervises commercial banks' activities, and is responsible for foreign exchange accounts and all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by do- mestic residents. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 453 1952, Spain notified the Fund on September 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in re- spect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in footnote 4 but are usually made in the currency of the country of ori- gin or destination. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open any kind of deposit ac- count in pesetas or foreign currency in all financial institutions. Residents may open accounts in pese- tas or foreign currency with any financial institu- tion abroad. Nonresidents' accounts in Spain and residents' accounts abroad are subject to reporting requirements. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports into Spain may be made freely. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin, or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made among the members of the European Union (EU), those of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and the Mediterranean and the ACP,5 member countries of the World Trade Organization, and state trading countries). Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through accounts in domestic and foreign financial institutions or other means of payment, including checks and transfers, subject to certain reporting re- quirements. The exportation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared and that of more than the equivalent of Ptas 5 million requires authorization. Nonresident holders of Spanish se- curities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, 5 African, Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome* Convention with the EU. dividends, proceeds from the disposal of subscrip- tion rights, and the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct in- vestments and rents on nonresident-owned real es- tate are freely transferable abroad. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special au- thorization is otherwise granted, insurance con- tracts abroad are restricted to cover exports and imports of goods and related operations. Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by-products) require prior authorization from the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade irrespective of destination. Proceeds from Invisibles The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared only when they are in- tended for investment or banking purposes. All proceeds from invisibles may be used freely. Capital Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines established by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Devel- opment (OECD) that take into account whether effective control over the company has been ob- tained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the investment is at least 10 percent of the company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Foreign investments effected through participation in Span- ish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only when foreign par- ticipation exceeds 50 percent and at least one of the following conditions applies: (1) foreign participa- tion exceeds Ptas 500 million, and (2) foreign inves- tors are residents of tax haven countries. Special authorization is required for non-EU foreign invest- ment in defense-related industries, telecommunica- tions (over 25 percent of capital), television, radio, air transport, and gambling. Special authorization is also required for a foreign government's partici- pation in Spanish companies (other than govern- ments of EU countries) unless otherwise regulated by international treaties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SPAIN The reinvestment of profits or proceeds from liq- uidation of existing investments is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely purchase any kind of financial assets and contract all types of commercial credit without restriction but must report these trans- actions to the Bank of Spain. Verification is required before Spanish companies issue shares in foreign markets; otherwise, securities operations are per- mitted freely. Real estate investments require prior verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Direct investments abroad by residents are per- mitted freely, although the following exceptions re- quire prior verification: (1) the amount of the investment exceeds Ptas 250 million, (2) the pur- pose of investment is to hold shares of other compa- nies, and (3) investment is in a tax haven country. Residents may purchase freely securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issu- ance) or by residents in a foreign market. Strict in- formation requirements apply to investments in securities and foreign lending. Prior authorization is required for direct investments by residents in non-EU countries where ownership of Spanish real estate or Spanish companies is transferred as a re- sult of the operation. Investments in real estate by residents abroad is permitted, but those that exceed Ptas 250 million require prior verification. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw mate- rials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, de- pending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement March 6. The upper and lower limits of the peseta for the currencies of the participants in the ERM of the EMS were changed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The Central Bank announces the daily spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, against the Sri Lanka rupee for transac- tions with the commercial banks, within margins of 1 percent, and purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the established rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 49.73 and SL Rs 50.23, re- spectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward sales are permitted to cover all transac- tions, with the exception of capital transfers and amortization of loans, up to a period not exceeding 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transac- tions are freely determined. They may cover such purchases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other autho- rized dealers. Authorized dealers are permitted to quote forward rates for up to 360 days. Sri Lanka formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 15,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as an agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits is- sued by the Controller of Exchange. The Board of Investments (BOI), formerly the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), has taken over the approval functions of the For- eign Investment Advisory Committee, which has been abolished, and now handles all applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka. Ap- proval for foreign investment is granted on the ba- sis of the types of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership; approval is automati- cally granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40 percent, except for a small number of activities reserved for citizens of Sri Lanka or regulated by a special law or a specific organization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from the member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., Bang- ladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transac- tions must be effected in Asian Currency Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated foreign currencies,1 in Sri Lanka rupees from a non- resident account a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident ac- count a person maintains with an authorized dealer, as approved by the Central Bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their de- parture); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1), (2), (3), and (4), the crediting of the initial and sub- sequent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements or outward re- mittances may be effected without the prior ap- proval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these require prior ap- proval. Accounts in category (4) are designated in the first instance as nonresident blocked accounts Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 SRI LANKA only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Con- trol; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require prior approval under certain circumstances. Under category (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate non- resident accounts with a local commercial bank without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds, usually owned by nonresidents, repatri- ates, and emigrants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax re- funds, and profits and dividends without prior ap- proval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange con- trol approval, proceeds from the liquidation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Bal- ances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstand- ing on March 25,1991, excluding Sri Lankan citizens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship and Indian and Pakistani expatriates, may be remit- ted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and ac- quired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lankan citizens who have acquired permanent resident status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than five years as of June 30,1992, are also per- mitted to remit their account balances abroad. In all other cases, remittances of up to a maximum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts with- out prior approval from the exchange control author- ities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a propor- tion of local currency earnings derived from the exhi- bition of foreign-owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been em- ployed abroad, and nonnationals of Sri Lankan ori- gin who reside outside Sri Lanka, are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) ac- counts in Sri Lanka in designated foreign curren- cies.2 Sri Lankans may also open such accounts within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with for- 2In Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Sin- gapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. eign exchange they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by in- dividuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in designated currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely deb- ited without exchange control approval for pay- ments abroad, with the exception of payments received for purchase consideration in respect of the sale of moveable or immoveable property in Sri Lanka, or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, with exemptions granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the Controller of Ex- change. Rupee loan facilities for third parties against NRFC balances are also permitted. Employ- ment agencies that recruit Sri Lankan nationals for foreign employment are also allowed to maintain NRFC accounts, to which their commission earn- ings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may es- tablish foreign currency banking units. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any desig- nated foreign currency from nonresidents, resident commercial banks, and any resident BOI enterprise. They may extend loans and advances in any desig- nated foreign currency to any nonresident, any resi- dent commercial bank, any resident enterprise having BOI status, any exporter for the purchase of imported inputs, and a few other specified organi- zations with approval from the Central Bank In ad- dition, the foreign currency banking units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank. Foreign currency banking units are also authorized to operate savings accounts. However, accounts allowing the with- drawal of funds by checks are not permitted. Sri Lankan residents may open and operate resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts with a minimum balance of $500 (or its equivalent) in designated currencies without prior approval or documentary evidence of receipt of such funds through customs declarations for up to $5,000. Ex- porters of goods and services who have increased their export earnings in foreign exchange over the previous year are permitted to open RFC accounts with up to 5 percent of their increased (annual) earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 457 Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior li- censing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those controlled for security rea- sons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cinemato- graphic laboratories; screens for projectors; multi- colored photocopying apparatuses; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete ce- ment blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash, including kelp; fertilizers; drugs and pharma- ceuticals; aircraft, including spare parts; certain mo- tor cars; certain consumer goods; rice, flour, and wheat grain; and various inorganic chemicals and compounds. The tariff regime, which was introduced as part of the measures of the 1992 budget (and revised in the 1994 budget), consists of four basic rate categories (45 percent, 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent); exceptions are automobiles (50-100 percent), most textiles and garments (50 percent), cement clinker (5 percent), and certain portland cement in bulk (7.5 percent). Certain essential products are ex- empted from duties at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance: pharmaceuticals, rice, wheat, flour, and sugar. Specific tariffs are also levied on several items, including locally grown agricultural goods (e.g., chili peppers and potatoes), certain petroleum products, and alcoholic beverages and spirits. Imports of specified items3 known as "reserved items" are restricted to government or state corpo- rations. Prior approval procedures apply to imports of certain capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the BOI, and certain machinery imports relating to local investment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee. No prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in convertible rupee ac- counts, which were closed to new credits as of No- vember 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for imports by export processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other im- ports may be effected only against letters of credit on document-against-payment terms valid for ship- ment for 180 days. Letters of credit on document against acceptance terms may be opened in respect •^These include wheat, guns, and explosives, as well as certain chemicals and petroleum products. of imports for export-oriented industries and other high-priority areas for periods ranging from 120 days to 180 days. A stamp duty of 2 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (exclud- ing inputs used in export industries) not fully cov- ered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign ex- change or to credit nonresident accounts against ap- plications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when appli- cable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $7,000 (c.i.f.), consists of raw materials and spare parts for indus- tries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Im- ports valued at $5,000 (c.i.f.) or less are permitted on document against agreement (D/A) terms with- out letters of credit when import documents are channelled through commercial banks. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles by residents may be made freely. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may remit up to two- thirds of their monthly earnings if their employ- ment contract does not exceed three years, and up to one-third if the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earnings. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f.o.b., c. & f., or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. Remittances of premium for insurance on exports are not permitted, and such insurance must be ob- tained from a local state insurance corporation or a private insurer. Remittances of premium to foreign reinsurers for reinsurance are permitted. Holders of funds in convertible rupee accounts with credit bal- ances outstanding as of November 15, 1977, may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of partnerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of divi- dends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SRI LANKA pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the benefi- ciary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the re- mittance represents the final installment of the prof- its, declared in respect of the year under reference; a computation of the remittable profits; and the docu- ments listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) certification from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents dividends only for the period to which it relates; (2) certification that the remittance consti- tutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficia- ries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors confirm- ing payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a fi- nal dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; a certificate from the auditors con- firming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the docu- ments listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 without prior ex- change control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward re- mittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees au- thorized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward re- mittances and to payments in foreign currency con- verted into Sri Lanka rupees. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be recon- verted into foreign currency notes and coins only at the exit point (Katunayake Airport/Colombo Port). Reconversion into drafts, telegraphic transfers, or traveler's checks can be made at all branches of the authorized dealers as well as at the exit point. For this purpose, the original encashment receipts or memos issued by the authorized dealers or money changers must be furnished. Sri Lankan and foreign passport holders may take out convertible foreign currency equivalent to $5,000 without declaration, irrespective of the number of trips they make. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding £20 a person (£10 for a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the following products require a li- cense: coral shanks and shells, betel leaves, miner- als and mineral products, metal ores, timber, metal and metal scraps, old vehicles (manufactured before 1945), ivory and ivory products, and fertiliz- ers.5 Exports of betel leaves to Pakistan, Singapore, and the Middle East are handled by three individ- ual firms. The State Gem Corporation exercises quality control over the exportation of gems; the private sector may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The Corporation handles ex- ports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in spe- cial circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member coun- try of the ACU. Commercial banks are permitted to grant foreign currency loans from their foreign cur- rency banking units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the pur- pose of executing export orders. This facility is lim- ited to 70 percent of the total value of the confirmed 4Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Effective January 10, 1994, the licensing requirement was abolished except for timber, coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, and old vehicles (manufactured before 1945). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 459 export order. The period of repayment of these loans is eight months. Companies engaged in indirect exports may ob- tain foreign currency loans for the importation of raw materials on the basis of back-to-back letters of credit opened in foreign currency for receipt of pay- ment in foreign currency, including payments from BOI enterprises. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his/her foreign exchange holdings exceeding $5,000, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of noncon- vertible currencies after making a declaration to customs. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange as approved by the BOI. Pro- ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in these projects, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100 percent of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain exclusions and limita- tions, without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange through a share investment external ru- pee account maintained at a commercial bank. Pro- ceeds from the sale of these shares may be repatriated automatically, net of any tax. Blocked funds held by nonresidents with the approval of the Controller of Exchange in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liqui- dation of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repatriated in full only with prior approval from the Minister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not gener- ally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the country's exports and generate reasonable profits. Resident-owned securities, on which principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency, must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Companies incorpo- rated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved country funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individ- uals, including Sri Lankans residing abroad. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of ap- propriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by nor- mal direct route plus 20 percent of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign ex- change equivalent up to £500 an adult and £250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 30,000 an adult and SL Rs 15,000 a child un- der 12 years, plus jewelry up to SL Rs 100,000 for each married woman, SL Rs 60,000 for each unmar- ried woman, SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 25,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 per individual, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million per family unit. The Depart- ment of Exchange Control may approve the transfer of pensions and interest income up to £100 a month, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in full assets representing their retire- ment funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to trans- fer the capital they originally brought into the coun- try, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Ex- ports with the approval of the Controller of Ex- change. Commercial banks may obtain a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports and im- port gold for sale to the public, subject to payment of duty and turnover tax. Commercial banks are also permitted to import gold on a consignment ba- sis for duty-free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport, with a license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Commercial im- ports of jewelry and other articles containing gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 SRI LANKA are restricted, except for imports of gold for the pro- duction of jewelry for exportation. Changes During 1994 treatment as those held by nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka. Remittances abroad from these accounts were no longer subject to the prior ap- proval of the Controller of Exchange. Exchange Arrangement March 15. Sri Lanka formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 1. Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees held by Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka and by emigrants were subjected to the same Exports and Export Proceeds January 10. The licensing requirement was abol- ished except for timber, coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, and vehicles manufac- tured before 1945. Capital June 1. The emigrant allowance for individuals was raised to SL Rs 750,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Dinar,1 the external value of which is determined in the in- terbank market. Commercial banks are authorized to quote on a daily basis buying and selling ex- change rates—subject to a maximum spread of LSd 7—to be applied to all formal banking sector transactions, other than certain compulsory sales of foreign exchange to the Bank of Sudan. On Decem- ber 31, 1994, the average commercial bank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LSd 41.2 and LSd 42.1, respectively per US$1. Sixty-five per- cent of foreign exchange surrendered to commercial banks is subject to compulsory sale to the Bank of Sudan: 40 percent at each bank's quoted selling rate, and 25 percent at the Bank of Sudan's refer- ence exchange rate (or the bank's selling rate, whichever is lower). The Bank of Sudan's reference rate is determined daily as a weighted average of the buying rates of the commercial banks; owing to reporting lags, the reference exchange rate is based on interbank exchange rates in effect two business days earlier. The Bank of Sudan's selling rate for of- ficial exchange transactions is determined by ap- plying a margin to the reference exchange rate of LSd 7. In principle, commercial banks are authorized by the Bank of Sudan to sell foreign exchange to be transferred abroad for all purposes. In practice, ri- gidities in the market mean that commercial banks conduct informal rationing by making foreign ex- change available according to the priorities estab- lished by each bank manager. In the case of payments for imports, commercial banks are autho- rized to sell foreign exchange to licensed traders, except for categories of goods that are on the nega- tive list. Under a central bank regulation, the com- mercial banks are obligated to require 100 percent cash cover before agreeing to the sale of foreign ex- change. When foreign exchange is made available by a commercial bank against a letter of credit, the amount is immediately deposited in a suspended account on behalf of the purchaser, while foreign exchange made available on the basis of cash against documents is transferred to the purchaser lrThe Sudanese pound (LSd) also circulates and has a fixed re- lationship to the Sudanese dinar (Sd) of LSd 10 per Sd 1. immediately. Commercial banks do not bear any ex- change risk for any foreign exchange transaction. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan with the assistance of the authorized banks and specialized banks acting as exchange houses. Commercial banks and specialized banks may ef- fect payments from their foreign exchange accounts without verification by the Bank of Sudan in accor- dance with the guidelines specified by the Bank of Sudan. Authorized banks are prohibited from con- ducting foreign exchange transactions with any public body and from disposing of balances in for- eign currency accounts held by such bodies in do- mestic banks without prior approval from the Bank of Sudan. Commercial banks are responsible for verifying that exports and imports under the trade protocol with Egypt are in accordance with licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. The issuance of commercial certificates is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply. The Bank of Sudan has the authority to request any information or details from authorized banks. All exporters, and importers are required to register with the Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free foreign currency account or special foreign cur- rency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Sudanese resident individuals and legal entities, with the exception of the Government, public insti- tutions, and public sector enterprises, are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. Free ac- counts may be credited with any means of payment 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 SUDAN without restriction, other than a customs declara- tion for cash deposits. Withdrawals from free ac- counts may be used (l).to make transfers abroad; (2) to make transfers to other free accounts; (3) to purchase domestic currency; (4) to make payments in foreign exchange to domestic institutions autho- rized to sell goods and services for foreign ex- change; (5) to finance imports; and (6) to finance overseas travel of up to $5,000 a person in bank- notes and any additional amount in other means of payment, based on evidence of travel authorization and tickets. The following are allowed to open special ac- counts with authorized banks in foreign and local currency: diplomatic, foreign, international, and re- gional missions and organizations; foreign charities and aid organizations; and foreign companies, for- eign contractors, and the foreign personnel of these organizations. Special foreign exchange accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for trans- fers abroad, to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency in order to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institu- tions authorized to sell goods and services for for- eign currency, and to finance imports. Withdrawals can be made for the purpose of travel by the ac- count holder or his or her family, and for local pay- ments in Sudanese pounds, requiring conversion to Sudanese currency at the central bank window rate. Airline companies are allowed to open foreign currency accounts without approval from the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be credited with pay- ments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. Transfers between free and special foreign cur- rency accounts are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import li- censes are not required, except for goods imported through bilateral and preferential trade arrange- ments. All applications for the importation of goods (except crude oil and petroleum products) not in- cluded on the negative list must be channeled through the commercial or specialized banks and must be accompanied by the following: (1) a pro forma invoice; (2) a valid commercial registration certificate (issued annually by the Ministry of Com- merce) that verifies that the importer is a trader; (3) a valid tax clearance certificate; and (4) the writ- ten consent of the authorized bodies for certain cat- egories of goods such as drugs, medical tools and equipment (Ministry of Health); veterinary medi- cines and equipment (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); food (Ministry of Health); seeds (Ministry of Agriculture); ammunition and explosives (Ministry of Interior); airport equipment (Civil Aviation Security); communications—tele- phone, facsimile, and telex—equipment (Security Telecommunication Corporation); insecticides and fertilizer (Ministry of Agriculture); inputs used by the chicken and dairy industries (Ministry of Agri- culture and Veterinary Resources); irrigation pumps (Ministry of Irrigation); and agricultural sprayers (Ministry of Agriculture). As from July 9, 1994, the negative list covered only sugar and automobiles, in addition to imports prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and na- tional security. In principle, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to finance all imports (except those on the negative list) irrespective of their final use. Authorized banks are also allowed to provide import credit facilities for imports of specified capi- tal goods by means of sight credit or documents against acceptance, provided that maturity is no less than two years and repayments do not begin until one year after the arrival of the goods.2 Autho- rized banks are free to obtain from importers a de- posit of any amount in foreign currency at least one month before the importers receive the shipping documents; the remaining foreign exchange may be provided when the shipping documents are re- ceived. Commercial banks are authorized to finance on credit imports of capital goods (provided that the credit agreement allows a grace period of at least one year) and of wheat and flour. Commercial and specialized banks are required to furnish the Bank of Sudan with the following in- formation every two weeks: applicant's name, goods to be imported and their value, terms of pay- ment, approval number, and commercial registra- tion number. Authorized banks, when filing import applications, are required to provide the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply with informa- tion on the type and quantity of commodities every two weeks. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Imports financed at the commercial market rate, including those financed through the opening of letters of credit, could be 2These goods include agricultural equipment, such as tractors and harvesters; all means of transportation, excluding sedans; mining equipment; all kinds of industrial and service equipment; and road, irrigation, building, and construction equipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 463 subject to an advance deposit of up to the full c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to transfer up to 50 percent of net salaries of foreign consultants, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: evidence of work permit, certificate showing net basic salary, and certificate showing no tax obli- gation. On this basis, up to 50 percent of net salaries may be remitted abroad. Formal restrictions on other payments for invisibles apply only to the per- sonal limit of $5,000 on withdrawals of banknotes for foreign travel; there is no limit on the amount that can be withdrawn as traveler's checks or bank checks. In practice, sales of foreign exchange for in- visible payments differ among commercial and spe- cialized banks owing to the informal rationing procedures established by each bank. Most com- mercial banks provide a nominal amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad after travel verification is obtained. When foreign exchange is in short sup- ply, business travel is favored over vacation travel. For medical treatment abroad, a commensurate amount of foreign exchange is provided after the applicant has obtained certification from the medi- cal committee. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, as is the ex- portation of hides and skins.3 Export licenses are not required for any category of exports (except for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and on account of barter trade). However, exporters must comply with administrative procedures de- signed to ensure full repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange export proceeds. Export contracts are subject to approval by the Ministry of Com- merce. To prevent underinvoicing, the Board of Ex- ported Commodities enforces a set of minimum export prices, which are updated on a periodic ba- sis. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce would normally deny export permits for any commodities subject to export prohibition and to exporters not in compliance with repatriation and surrender re- quirements in earlier export activities. All export proceeds, except those permitted to be retained under the Export Enhancement Scheme, ^he prohibition on exports of hides and skins is aimed at en- couraging local processing. From January 16, 1994, the prohibi- tion was extended to include reptile skins. On August 1, 1994, reptile skins were again exempted from this prohibition on ex- ports, until January 18,1995. must be repatriated and sold to the domestic bank- ing system within 45 days of the date of the bill of lading. Sixty-five percent of export proceeds must be on-sold to the Bank of Sudan: 40 percent at each bank's quoted selling rate, and 25 percent at the Bank of Sudan's reference exchange rate (or the bank's selling rate, whichever is lower). Export taxes are levied on all categories of goods (except exports under bilateral protocol arrange- ments and under barter trade). The tax is collected by customs and deposited in its account at the Bank of Sudan. The applicable tax rates are 10 percent on cotton and gum arabic, and 5 percent on other exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad are required to remit annually to domestic residents a minimum amount of foreign exchange, ranging from $300 (for ordinary workers, clerical and medical assistants, and soldiers) to $800-$5,000 (for professors, physi- cians, specialists in international organizations, and businessmen).4 Exemptions are provided, however, for Sudanese nationals, other than employees of in- ternational organizations, working in a number of countries. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in foreign currencies without restriction and may export any amount of Sudanese currency. Residents and non- residents entering Sudan must declare their hold- ings of foreign currency and re-export them within three months, after which foreign exchange must be surrendered to the banking system either for de- posit in free foreign exchange accounts or for con- version into local currency. Commercial banks are prohibited from accepting foreign currencies with- out valid declaration forms. Shipping agencies are permitted to accept foreign currency in payment for any services; however, they are required to sell all the foreign currency pro- ceeds to authorized banks on the day following their receipt at the central bank exchange rate. Sales of tickets and freight services in foreign cur- rencies by airline companies in Sudan are restricted to (1) foreign tourists and businessmen; (2) foreign- ers working with diplomatic missions and organi- zations and international, regional, and national organizations; (3) foreigners employed by foreign relief, charitable, and religious organizations; and (4) foreigners working with foreign companies and branches of companies operating in the fields of ^hese minimum remittances are in addition to a tax payable when obtaining a passport. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SUDAN contracting, investment, and prospecting for petro- leum and minerals. Airline companies are allowed to receive payments for tickets and freight services in foreign currency on condition that payments are made in the form of deposits to their foreign cur- rency accounts. Sales in foreign exchange deposited in the foreign currency accounts must be remitted to the company's head office accompanied by a cer- tificate issued by the Civil Aviation Authority. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in accor- dance with existing laws and regulations. Repatria- tion of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to certification from the Bank of Sudan regarding the original value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Repatriation of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to certification from the In- vestment Public Corporation. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to cer- tain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on be- half of the monetary authorities and industrial us- ers. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing, and the full value of the gold processed must be kept in an escrow account abroad in favor of the exporting company. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement July 2. The dual exchange rate system was abol- ished and replaced by a unified official exchange rate to be determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks were authorized to quote on a daily basis buying and selling exchange rates- subject to a maximum spread of LSd 7—to be ap- plied to all formal banking sector transactions other than certain compulsory sales of foreign exchange to the Bank of Sudan, which would take place at the Bank of Sudan's reference exchange rate. The refer- ence rate would be determined daily as a weighted average of the buying rates quoted by commercial banks during the preceding day. The Bank of Sudan's selling rate for official transactions would be determined by applying a margin of ± LSd 7 to the reference exchange rate. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts April 27. Regulations governing the operations of free foreign currency accounts and special for- eign currency accounts were issued. Free accounts could henceforth be opened by all Sudanese resi- dent individuals and legal entities, other than the Government, public institutions, and public sector enterprises. Such accounts could be freely credited with remittances from abroad, foreign exchange (where the depositor has a valid customs declara- tion), transfers from other free accounts, foreign currency banknotes purchased from the Sudanese banking system, and checks drawn on overseas ac- counts. Foreign exchange withdrawn from free ac- counts must be used within one month to make transfers abroad, to make transfers to other free ac- counts, to purchase domestic currency, to make payments in foreign exchange to domestic institu- tions authorized to sell goods and services for for- eign exchange, to finance imports, and to finance overseas travel (of up to $5,000 in banknotes a per- son and any amount in other means of payment, based on evidence of travel authorization and tickets). Special foreign currency accounts could be opened by diplomatic, foreign, and regional mis- sions and organizations; foreign charities and aid organizations; and foreign companies, foreign con- tractors, and the foreign personnel of such organi- zations. Special foreign currency accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. They may also be used to make transfers abroad to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency in order to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to finance imports. The transfer of foreign exchange between free and special foreign currency accounts would be prohibited. Imports and Import Payments February 28. The following products were elimi- nated from the negative import list: household utensils, other than plastic utensils; textiles (except for certain coarse upholstery fabrics, polyester, and women's wear); watches and alarm clocks; cameras and photographic equipment; jewelry; chains, in- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 465 eluding key chains; picture frames; electric hair dry- ers; wallets; photo albums; umbrellas; pearls; bags, other than leather; fire-resistant safes; sickles; nail clippers; cooking grills; and diapers. Imports of the following products were autho- rized to be effective through the Duty-Free Corpo- ration: air-conditioning equipment; refrigerators, water coolers, and freezers; TVs and VCRs; tape re- corders and radios; rugs and carpets; washing ma- chines and water heaters; electric heaters; vacuum cleaners; electric irons; and stoves and ovens. April 14. The following items were eliminated from the negative import list: reconditioned distrib- utors for vehicles and agricultural machinery and shredded vegetable fiber for upholstery. Plain white calico and its derivatives were added to the nega- tive import list. April 27. The authorization to import products through the Duty-Free Corporation (established in February 1994) was broadened to cover women's saris and veils. April 29. The prohibition on imports of Egyptian fava beans was lifted. July 9. All items except the following were elimi- nated from the negative import list: alcoholic drinks and narcotics; gambling equipment; unlicensed weapons, ammunition, and explosives; sugar; and passenger saloon cars. July 20. Sudanese individuals in the following categories were permitted to import automobiles for personal use: residents abroad returning to Sudan on a permanent basis; Sudanese deported from other countries; emigrant experts and advi- sors returning to official positions; students in higher education abroad returning to Sudan; and diplomats returning to Sudan. September 21. The categories of Sudanese individ- uals authorized to import cars for personal use were widened to include Sudanese working abroad for Sudanese maritime lines, the Sudanese Airlines, overseas centers of Sudanese state-owned corpora- tions, and workers in international organizations. Exports and Export Proceeds January 16. Reptile skins were included in the prohibition on exports of hides and skins. March 30. The prohibition on exports of semipro- cessed leather (imposed in May 1993) was lifted. May 10. The exportation of scrap aluminum and scrap copper was prohibited. July 1. The ban on exports of scrap aluminum and copper was eliminated. August 1. Reptile skins were exempted until Janu- ary 18,1995 from the prohibition on exports of un- processed hides and skins. October 4. The prohibition on exports of maize was lifted. A minimum export price for maize was established as $100 for each ton bulk, and $120 a ton in sacks. December 17. The proportion of export proceeds subject to compulsory sale at the Bank of Sudan's reference exchange rate was reduced to 65 percent from 80 percent. December 17. The proportion of export proceeds subject to compulsory sale to the Bank of Sudan was reduced to 25 percent from 50 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles March 31. The system of income taxes payable by Sudanese workers abroad (adopted in January 1992) was replaced by a schedule of minimum annual transfers to Sudan, ranging from $300 for ordinary workers, clerical and medical assistants, and soldiers to $800-$5,000 for professors, physi- cians, specialists in international organizations, and businessmen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guil- der. Exchange rates are freely determined on the ba- sis of demand and supply conditions in the market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange houses may trade foreign exchange with customers, among themselves, or with the Central Bank of Suriname on a freely negotiable basis. The Central Bank determines the exchange rate to be used in of- ficial transactions, which is based on the weighted- average rate of commercial bank transactions on the previous working day. One percent is charged on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 2 percent on sales of foreign exchange and 9.25 percent on transfers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the of- ficial or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29,1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to li- censing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry.1 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import li- cense, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Com- mission. External payments, other than for the im- portation of goods, require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange un- less the remitter submits an exchange license. Ex- ports also require a license from the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Commercial banks may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign ex- change that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suri- name and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suri- name guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Suri- namese tender. Resident nonbanks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real es- tate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in for- ^owever, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activi- ties in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 467 eign currency accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely, except for travel; use of these accounts and foreign assets for travel is lim- ited to Sf 1,500 a person a year. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Im- ports of some commodities are prohibited,3 and im- ports of another group of commodities are subject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11,1982.4 The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A statistical fee of 2.0 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports of bauxite com- panies, and 0.5 of the c.i.f. value of other imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a month for each item on account of certain services 3The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (ex- cluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; cit- rus fruits, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (exclud- ing baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar, or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and con- centrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for construction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, han- dles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (exduding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as ex- plosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public pol- icy or health. ^he commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fruits and nuts (other than citrus fruits, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made cloth- ing, and furniture (excluding those for business establishments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth) as well as for adver- tising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to li- censing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 1,500 a person a calendar year. The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign ex- change sold and the date, and the purchase of ex- change for travel is not permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are ap- proved on a case-by-case basis. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an indi- vidual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net in- come from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for the amortization of loans or depreciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Commission for verification. These payments are temporarily sus- pended. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The ex- portation of foreign banknotes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad. Exporters of the bauxite, banana, and rice sectors must surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds to the Central Bank within 30 days. Other ex- porters must surrender their proceeds to authorized commercial banks, and are allowed to buy back up to 85 percent of the amount surrendered. The Minis- try of Trade and Industry ascertains with the rele- vant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of ba- boonwood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain export companies have received special permission from the Foreign Ex- change Commission to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of pro- cessed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 100 percent of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 SURINAME are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0 percent of their f.o.b. value, and other exports are subject to a statis- tical fee of 0.5 percent of their f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in unlimited foreign currency and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their posses- sion on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and de- clared on entry. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Commission provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents, or the liquidation of, fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The deci- sion covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 percent. Transfers in accordance with these deci- sions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Commission may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subse- quently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earn- ings in Suriname accrued during his period of resi- dence. If his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under excep- tional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries5 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Trans- fers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires the prior approval of the Foreign Exchange Com- mission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those under- taken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.6 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dol- lar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Lo- cally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Commission by sale to the Cen- tral Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permit- ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings be- tween residents in gold bars and other forms of un- worked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet de- mand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with face values of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250—are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Neth- erlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. ^his arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 469 banks may freely negotiate gold coins among them- selves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Commission; licenses are not normally granted ex- cept for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to decla- ration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a sta- tistical fee of 0.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange rate applicable to foreign exchange surrendered by the two bauxite compa- nies for payment of local expenses was changed to Sf 55 per US$1 from Sf 8 per US$1. July 11. The multiple exchange rate system was unified. Administration of Control October 1. Import licensing requirements were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plu- ral Emalangeni), which is pegged to the South Afri- can rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African commercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1994, the closing buying and selling rates were E 3.5440 and E 3.5455, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European currency unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the PTA clearinghouse. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commer- cial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against ema- langeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11,1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), a single exchange control territory compris- ing Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not con- trolled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa but has not adopted the dual ex- change rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resident of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa, and no import restric- tions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an un- known quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with spe- cific import regulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign ex- change required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling im- port licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to en- sure that export proceeds are repatriated in the pre- scribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally re- stricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to established limits is dele- gated to authorized dealers. The basic exchange al- lowances for tourist travel are E 23,000 for each adult, and E 11,500 for each child, a year. For busi- ness travel, the basic allowance is E 1,800 a person a day, not exceeding E 34,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member countries of the PTA must use traveler's checks de- nominated in the units of account of the PTA (UA- PTAs). To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of un- dertaking before departure. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 471 Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior ap- proval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the CBS to allow some nonresidents to invest in specific projects in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism by acquiring shares in new companies and by purchasing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to investments involving the estab- lishment or expansion of manufacturing enterprises, subject to evidence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds provided through financial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capi- tal are considered on their merits. Blocked emalan- geni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 32, 2994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. The Swedish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and for- ward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Sveriges Riksbank, however, has the discretionary power to intervene in the exchange market. On December 31,1994, the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Skr 7.4425 and Skr 7.4825, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or forward, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swed- ish kronor credited (debited) to a krona account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, op- tions) in individual foreign currencies and on the total net position in all foreign currencies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net posi- tion is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is a recognized market maker, the limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may in- cur foreign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply. This enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to resi- dents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely per- mitted. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all liability positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and to 30 per- cent for recognized market makers. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control All current and capital transactions are free from exchange control. When required, import and ex- port licenses are issued by the National Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board De- cision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Sweden notified the Fund on August 7,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). These restrictions were extended on September 23,1994 to include areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herze- govina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces. Cer- tain restrictions were imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Angola, according to UN Security Council Resolution No. 748 (1992) of March 31,1992, and UN Security Council Resolution No. 864 (1993) of September 15,1993, respectively. Financial transac- tions with Iraq are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990) and other relevant UN resolutions. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an external krona account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External krona accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Belarus, China, Hungary, Kazakhstan, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. However, most imports from these coun- tries are liberalized. Imports of most iron and steel 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 473 products from all countries, except from the mem- bers of the European Union (EU) and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. With a few ex- ceptions, imports from Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the con- trol of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- porters are also permitted to accept foreign suppli- ers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made by resi- dents in favor of nonresidents without limit or re- striction. Travelers may export any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes or any other means of payment. While abroad, residents may open accounts, pro- vided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riks- bank for statistical purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other ex- ports, with the exception of scrap metal to countries other than member countries of the EU and the EFTA, are free from license. With a few exceptions, exports to Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bos- nian Serb forces are prohibited. Some exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Angola are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kro- nor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may import any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes or any other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free from restriction. For tax control and statistical purposes, however, residents depositing funds in foreign bank accounts or transacting through such an account must report the amount to the Swedish National Tax Board and to the Riksbank. Transactions in securities may be carried out freely. Foreign securities held by indi- viduals must be deposited with an authorized cur- rency dealer who is a securities broker or a broker who has received special approval from the Riks- bank or a similar foreign institution. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control July 1. Certain areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina became subject to sanctions in September 1994. Some imports from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slovak Republic were liberalized. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when cir- cumstances warrant. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1994, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.3118 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commercial and fi- nancial transactions. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange con- tracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export re- ceipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a for- eign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal De- partment of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capital export transactions of financial institutions, however, are subject to approval by the Swiss Na- tional Bank (see section on Capital, below). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Switzerland notified the Fund that, in accor- dance with the relevant UN Security Council reso- lutions, certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq, the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Restrictions have also been imposed on payments and transfers to Haiti, Iraq, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is a state monopoly. The most important commodities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, within the global quotas established for certain ag- ricultural products. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign banknotes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including the re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons, dual-use goods, and scrap metal, is controlled through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign banknotes is unrestricted. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formal- ity, except that foreign bond issues in Switzerland 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 475 amounting to or exceeding Sw F10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more require per- mission from the Swiss National Bank. In practice, this requirement is administered very liberally. For- eign institutions are allowed to participate in syndi- cated Swiss franc security issues, provided that the lead manager is domiciled in Switzerland. For direct bank participations or subscriptions by Swiss banks in issues and bank credits (exceeding Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months) abroad, the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Selected banks and finance companies are re- quired to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or residing abroad require ap- proval by the canton in which the property is situ- ated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal Government. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and ex- ports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1994 Capital March 18. Parliament passed a law revising the banking law (the law came into force on February 1, 1995). The law abolished the former permit require- ment for foreign bond issues exceeding Sw F 10 mil- lion each and with a maturity of 12 months or more and introduced instead a reporting requirement for foreign and domestic bond issues. In case of any tur- moil on the capital markets, the federal Government may reintroduce the permit requirement. In addi- tion, the reporting requirement for direct bank par- ticipation or subscriptions by Swiss banks in credits and issues of equities was abolished. October 7. Parliament passed a law that would liberalize foreign ownership of real estate for such purposes as agriculture, industry, trade, banking, and insurance. (If it is approved by a referendum, the law would come into effect on June 25,1995.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of the following four rates: (1) the official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per US$1 applies, on the re- ceipts side, to government transactions, public sec- tor exports of petroleum and some agricultural products; and, on the payments side, to govern- ment transactions, public sector imports of some agricultural products, and public sector invisibles payments; (2) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 42/43 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to all public and private capital inflows, receipts from tourists, 25 percent of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75 percent of export proceeds retained by private sector ex- porters that is not used to finance their own imports or others; and on the payments side, to travel allow- ances, tourism and medical expenses, some student allowances, remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange, and as an accounting rate for some government transactions and for customs val- uation of some imports;1 (3) the promotion rate of LS 20/22 per US$1, which is used only for pay- ments of allowances to students who started over- seas study before January 1, 1991; and (4) the "government fee rate" (LS 42.95/43.00 per US$1) applies to a number of fees, including those on tran- sit and port services, and as an accounting rate for some government transactions as well as for cus- toms valuation of some imports. In addition to the above rates, there is also a Beirut free market rate, which stood at LS 51.20 per US$1 on December 15, 1994. There is also an "export proceeds" market in which a market- determined rate applies to a number of newly per- mitted goods that may be imported only with for- eign exchange earned through exports. Exporters who do not use all of their export earnings to im- port goods may sell their retained foreign exchange earnings to importers in this market; in December 1994, the exchange rate in this market stood at LS 57.00 per US$1. Exchange rates between the Syrian pound and other major currencies are set on the basis of the ex- change rate between the Syrian pound and the U.S. dollar in relation to the exchange rates of the cur- rencies concerned in the international markets. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is de- termined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Ex- change Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Ex- change Office. Only the Central Bank and the Com- mercial Bank of Syria may deal in foreign exchange. The Commercial Bank of Syria opens letters of credit and accepts bills for collection without prior ap- proval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies that can be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of cur- rency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Is- rael are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian Federation, and Sri Lanka; how- ever, the agreements with the Russian Federation and Sri Lanka are inoperative, and payments for imports from the Islamic Republic of Iran may also be made in convertible currencies. *In 1994, the "airline rate/7 which applies, on the receipts side, to purchases of airline tickets by nonresidents, and, on the pay- ments side, to transfers abroad by airline companies, was ad- justed to LS 42/43 per US$1 and was effectively merged with the "rate in neighboring countries/' Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 477 sold to the authorized banks and with other re- ceipts; they may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the ac- count holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents (individuals and corpora- tions) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the Commercial Bank of Syria for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such ac- counts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for au- thorized imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents tempo- rarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds re- ceived in settlement currencies, through payment conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their staffs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the official rate and may keep the remaining 50 percent on deposit in foreign exchange with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria or convert it into Syrian pounds at the rate in neighboring countries. The debiting for expenditures in the Syrian Arab Republic and abroad is free. Residents not involved in export activities and wishing to open foreign currency accounts are re- quired to present written evidence that they have sources of income from abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including pa- per, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by cer- tain private sector importers. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. The list of items that the pri- vate sector is permitted to import includes certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come directly from the country of ori- gin, without the intervention of any foreign firm. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zones are al- lowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free-zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports valued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licensing.2 The foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon submission of documentation of their import requirements. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged upon issuing the import license. Additionally, an import surcharge of 2 percent is charged on all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items (including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products) are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at the official exchange rate (as of 1993, this excludes items subject to duty at the rate of 75 per- cent or higher). Following the reform of import du- ties and surcharges in 1989, import tariffs range from zero to 200 percent, and all the previous spe- cial levies on imports have been replaced by a uni- fied import surcharge ranging from 6 percent to 35 percent.3 Private importers are authorized to im- port products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. However, when foreign exchange is not made available, private sector imports must be financed with the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by nonresidents, the importers' own foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the export proceeds retention regulations, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed sector enterprises through the intermediary of the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Imports of a number of goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. For example, a number of imports may be imported using only foreign exchange gen- erated through exports. A non-interest-bearing advance import deposit is required. These deposits, which are held for six months, range from 10 percent to 40 percent of the value of imports. For several categories of goods, an advance import deposit equal to 100 percent of the value of the import, plus a 3 percent fee, are required. 2 In accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement, certain imports from Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are ex- empted from the licensing requirement; in these cases, an autho- rization to import is granted upon written request. ^he simple and weighted average (using 1987 import values as weights) of basic tariffs are 19.9 percent and 10.4 percent, re- spectively. The simple and weighted average of all import duties (defined as the sum of the basic tariffs, unified surcharges, and the 2 percent import license fee) are 35 percent and 22.8 percent, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, up to a limit of $2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this amount, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Leb- anon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian banknotes. With this excep- tion, Syrian banknotes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Work- ers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them the entire amount of the allocations on producing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad; otherwise they may take with them only foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations. For travel to countries with which payments agree- ments are maintained, 50 percent of the travel allo- cation must be handled through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nation- ality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if trav- eling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to this tax. Fixed allocations are maintained for other trans- actions in invisibles. A maximum of 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and ex- perts employed in Syria, and 50 percent of the sala- ries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in Syria may be transferred. All other transactions require prior approval from the Exchange Office, with the exception of embas- sies and international organizations; such entities may convert up to 50 percent of transfers at the rate in neighboring countries and the remaining 50 per- cent at the official exchange rate. Nonresidents leaving the country are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. The allow- ance for education abroad is subject to prior autho- rization from the Ministry of Higher Education. The transfer of funds abroad for family maintenance is limited to LS 250 for each transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof of need. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. Remittances of profits from in- vestment must be authorized by the Exchange Of- fice upon documentation (for example, a certificate confirming payment of income tax). Profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for In- vestment under the new investment law can be re- patriated freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and their derivatives are made by the government orga- nizations dealing in cereals and cotton.4 Petroleum exports are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Of- fice. Exports of certain other commodities are also re- served for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports under bilateral payments agree- ments and of all goods of foreign origin require licensing; no repatriation commitment is required, with the exporter repatriating and surrendering the proceeds to the Commercial Bank of Syria within 45 days of the date of shipment to Lebanon, within 3 months of the date of export shipment to other Arab countries, and within 4 months of the date of export shipment to other countries. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to fi- nance imports on the permitted list; the retained portion of foreign exchange earnings can be depos- ited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in special for- eign currency accounts until import payments are made or foreign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept pre- payments for exports of Syrian products by resi- dents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Subsidies for exports of ginned cotton from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products have been sus- pended. A tax ranging from 9 percent to 12 percent ad valorem is charged on the value of exports of ag- ricultural origin, except fruits and vegetables (which are exempt) and cotton (for which the ex- port tax is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports (f.o.b.), less the cost of transportation within the Syrian Arab Republic). Exports of other agricultural commodities are subject to an ad valorem agricul- tural tax of 7 percent. ^he General Organization for Cereals Trade and Production and the General Organization for Cotton Ginning and Marketing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 479 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official rate and those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresidents en- tering Syria are permitted to bring in unlimited for- eign exchange and Syrian pounds without declaration, if the amount does not exceed $5,000. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organizations within Syria and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrians visiting Syria are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. All Syrian employees working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their pro- fession, and are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if the equivalent funds are surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. Syrian government employ- ees who are on leave and working abroad are re- quired to repatriate and convert a minimum of 25 percent of each year's earnings received in for- eign exchange at the rate in neighboring countries. Capital All capital transfers to and from Syria by the pub- lic and private sector take place at the rate in neigh- boring countries. Exports of capital and foreign borrowings require the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Syria provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states, including a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Under Investment Law No. 10, projects with mini- mum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the Government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including ex- emption from customs duties of imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Mixed compa- nies with at least 25 percent public participation are exempted from all taxes for seven years and private companies are exempted for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50 percent of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans se- cured in foreign currency and 75 percent of foreign currency exports. Funds from such accounts may be provided on demand and may be used for the com- pensation of foreign staff. Investors are free to repa- triate foreign exchange capital after five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. All profits may be transferred freely. Foreign staff are entitled to transfer abroad 60 percent of salaries and 100 per- cent of severance pay. Syria has investment guarantee agreements with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzer- land, and the United States. Nonresidents and for- eign nationals may acquire immovable property in Syria only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an autho- rized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without re- striction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Ex- ports of gold previously imported by nonresidents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatri- ation commitment covering the cost of manufactur- ing and the profit earned. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The rate in neighboring countries was applied to some products for customs valuation pur- poses. Hence, three rates were used for customs val- uation: the official exchange rate, a rate of LS 23.00 per US$1, and the rate in neighboring countries. January 31. A new government fee exchange rate of LS 22.95/23.00 per US$1 was established, which covers fees on some government services and is used as an accounting rate for some government transactions. Administration of Control August 21. Restrictions on trade with South Africa were abolished. Change During 1995 Exchange Arrangement January 2. The government fee exchange rate was changed to LS 42.95/43.00 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tajikistan is the Ruble.1 The ex- change rate system consists of three rates. There is no organized interbank foreign exchange market, but commercial banks are free to trade in foreign exchange, and the rates quoted by commercial banks are based on supply and demand conditions. The National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan (NBT) quotes twice a week an official representa- tive exchange rate for the ruble based on the mid- point of buying and selling rates for the Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar in the Moscow Inter- bank Currency Exchange (MICEX), as established by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation. This official rate is used for official debt-service pay- ments and all transactions involving the State For- eign Currency Fund (the holder of the official foreign exchange reserves of Tajikistan), including the required surrender of foreign currency export receipts. An official accounting exchange rate of 1.7562 rubles per US$1 is used for the valuation of foreign exchange reserves. The spread between buying and selling rates of the commercial banks is regulated by the NBT and may not exceed 10 percent. In December 1994, the average commercial bank exchange rate ranged from Rub 4,688 to Rub 5,360 per US$1. Administration of Control Regulations and procedures for foreign exchange and ruble transactions between residents and non- residents were temporarily established by the Na- tional Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan in March 1993. The Ministry of Finance has responsibility for handling financial relations between Tajikistan and foreign countries, and the Vneshekonombank is its agent and the depository of the Foreign Currency Fund. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in rubles, but major transactions are au- thorized and monitored by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan. Commercial banks autho- rized by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajiki- stan may use their correspondent accounts for commercial transactions with the countries of the former Soviet Union. Most enterprises arrange commercial transactions on a barter basis.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents (natural or juridical persons) may open foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with au- thorization from the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan and foreign currency accounts with li- censed banks in Tajikistan without coordinating with or notifying the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan; the source of foreign exchange need not be revealed. Foreign exchange held in these ac- counts may be transferred to residents' bank ac- counts abroad opened according to established procedure. There are no limits on the amount of for- eign currency banknotes that residents may pur- chase with rubles from licensed foreign exchange dealers. They may place these amounts in a foreign exchange account or use them for transactions with nonresidents. Nonresident individuals may open foreign ex- change accounts with licensed domestic banks and may transfer balances on these accounts abroad or convert them into rubles. Foreign governments, in- stitutions, and enterprises may open accounts in ru- bles with domestic banks with the authorization of the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan and may use the balances for domestic transactions. Imports and Exports Payments for imports may be made in accor- dance with normal commercial practices, but most trade is bartered. Foreign exchange may be pur- chased from commercial banks at market rates or drawn from a domestic foreign exchange account. Imports are largely free of restriction, including tar- iffs or quotas, with the exception of firearms and narcotics, the importation of which is prohibited. All exports require licenses. All exports are subject to a system of state order and quota. Exports are sub- ^ince January 8,1994, post-1993 Russian rubles have been in circulation only in cash form, and only the very small denomina- tions of pre-1993 Russian rubles remain in circulation. All other pre-1993 Russian rubles remain frozen in bank accounts. Tajikistan maintains bilateral trade agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 481 ject to tariffs, ranging from 5 percent to 1,000 percent of their ruble value; specific tariffs, ranging from $10 to $25,000, are levied on exports sold for convertible currency. Seventy percent of the proceeds from Tajikistan's main exports (excluding cotton and aluminum) re- ceived in convertible currency must be surrendered to the Republican Foreign Exchange Fund for ru- bles at the MICEX exchange rate prevailing on the day the proceeds are paid to exporters' accounts; 100 percent of the proceeds from cotton and alumi- num must be surrendered. All other exports are subject to the surrender requirement of 30 percent. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to authorized banks within 30 days of receipt. The exportation of cotton is a government monopoly. from outside the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union must pay for transportation and hotel services in convert- ible currencies. Capital Inward and outward capital transactions require licenses issued by the National Bank of the Repub- lic of Tajikistan. There are no limits on inward capi- tal transactions. Foreign investors are required to register with the Ministry of Finance. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of foreign direct in- vestment or profits. Profits may be reinvested in Tajikistan, held in banks in rubles or foreign cur- rency, or transferred abroad. Changes During 1994 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Imports and Exports Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes are granted an allowance of $400 a person a year. Foreign exchange needed for public or private busi- ness or other travel (e.g., education) are also subject to limits, which vary according to destination. Min- imum spending or conversion requirements for nonresident travelers do not exist. Nonresidents February 1. The surrender requirement rate for monopoly products other than cotton and alumi- num was reduced to 70 percent from 100 percent. December 3. A presidential decree placing the cot- ton trade under the sole control of a government agency, with effect from January 1, 1995, was announced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, the external value of which is determined in the in- terbank market. The exchange rates for other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies con- cerned in international markets.1 On December 30, 1994, the exchange rate in the interbank market was TSh 528.74 per US$1. Certain transactions may be effected through foreign exchange bureaus that are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) does not offer for- ward cover against exchange rate risk. However, authorized dealers may, at their discretion, enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated authority to administer exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In October 1993, the Bank of Tanzania dele- gated authority to make payments abroad to the five authorized banks—the National Bank of Com- merce, the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, the People's Bank of Zanzibar, the Meridien Bank, and the Standard Chartered Bank, as well as to authorized foreign exchange bureaus; control over exchange operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through its Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Ethi- opian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho maloti, Malawian kwacha, Mauritian ru- pees, Mozambican meticais, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a convertible nonresident account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are those maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tanzania; by firms, companies, or other organizations regis- tered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by for- eign diplomatic missions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania. These accounts are divided into two broad categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any further scrutiny by or approval from the Bank of Tanzania. The bal- ances of nonconvertible accounts may be trans- ferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcatego- ries of nonresident accounts: external, shipping/ airline, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspeci- fied. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals who usually reside in Tanzania may maintain nonresi- dent accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. The import-licensing requirement was abolished during the last quarter of 1993. For informational purposes only, imports of goods with a value ex- ceeding $2,000 require an import declaration form and a preshipment inspection document called a Clean Report of Finding. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of im- ports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. The tar- iff regime comprises four bands of 5 percent, 20 per- cent, 30 percent, and 40 percent, with a minimum rate of 5 percent. Certain imports, including those for new investments, are exempt from tariffs. Spe- cific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, to- bacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemp- tions are granted for the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; aircraft en- gines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, and reli- gious films; printed matter; cable and telephone material; sewing machines; and timber used by mining companies. Discretionary full or partial ex- 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 483 emptions are allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. All imports with a value exceeding $500 are sub- ject to compulsory preshipment inspection by inter- national agencies for quantity, quality, and price; imports with a value greater than $20,000 must be financed with letters of credit unless specific ap- proval is granted from the Bank of Tanzania. All merchandise imports to the mainland must be in- sured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports to Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to a sales tax at rates ranging up to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. This tax is also assessed on sales of domestic products. Payments for Invisibles There are no limits on purchases of foreign ex- change for travel, education, and other invisible payments and transfers. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus have the authority to ap- prove remittances abroad of up to one-third of the salary, throughout the period of employment, of foreigners temporarily working in Tanzania under contract and having a firm commitment to leave the country. Applications to remit more than one-third of a salary, or more than T Sh 6,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. A traveler may take out of the country up to T Sh 1,000 in domestic currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds With effect from June 1, 1993, export licenses have been required for only a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Export proceeds must be repatriated within two months of the date of exportation, but they need not be surrendered. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania, this period may be extended. Proceeds frofn Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an au- thorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in con- vertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins up to T Sh 1,000. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to ap- proval by commercial banks or the Investment Pro- motion Center. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Commissioner of Customs. Investment of foreign funds is not restricted in Tanzania, but, to ensure eventual repatriation, these investments must be recognized by the Investment Promotion Center, and a certificate of status as an approved enterprise under the National Investment Promotion Act of 1990 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. The act distinguishes three ar- eas for foreign investments: (1) controlled areas, which are reserved for public investment or joint public and private enterprises; (2) reserved areas, which are reserved exclusively for investment by the public sector; and (3) areas that are reserved ex- clusively for Tanzanian citizens. Registered foreign investors are permitted to use up to 50 percent of their net foreign exchange earnings for debt servic- ing or remittances of profits and dividends. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from resi- dents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. Income from such securities is remitta- ble, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of se- curities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies re- quire approval from the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form at home or abroad. Import licenses are not required. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 30. An interbank foreign exchange market replaced the foreign exchange auctions, and the of- ficial rate was based on the rate emerging from the trading sessions. Administration of Control December 30. Restrictions arising from bilateral payments arrangements with Burundi, Mozam- bique, and Zimbabwe were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 TANZANIA Imports and Import Payments February 1. The negative list for imports was fur- ther shortened to cover products that would be pro- hibited from importation only for health reasons. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The limits on purchases of foreign ex- change for travel, education, and other invisible payments and transfers were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The ex- ternal value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners and on other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces the daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for trans- actions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dollars, deut- sche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 30, 1994, the middle official rate was B 25.09 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions must be related to underlying trade and financial transac- tions. The open foreign exchange positions of com- mercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium in the baht-U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest dif- ferentials between the two currencies. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 4,1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank of Thailand delegates responsibility to autho- rized banks (commercial banks) for approving most transactions. Apart from authorized banks, autho- rized companies and authorized persons are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange operations, al- though their activities are limited to the buying and selling of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks up to a set amount prescribed by the Bank of Thai- land. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements for currencies that can be used in settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in foreign currencies are designated as foreign currency accounts. No restrictions are placed on the opening of foreign currency accounts as long as the funds originate abroad. Foreign cur- rency borrowed by nonresidents from authorized banks may be freely deposited in these accounts. Balances on these accounts earn interest and may be transferred abroad without restriction. Nonresidents may also open nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may be debited without restriction, and foreign currency arising from with- drawals from these accounts can be freely depos- ited in foreign currency accounts. Nonresident baht accounts may also be credited freely with payments for goods and services by residents and with funds transferred from other nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may also be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency with- drawn from nonresidents' foreign currency ac- counts, as well as baht proceeds borrowed from au- thorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Im- ports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Importers of tea leaf, tea dust, and skimmed milk are required to purchase a propor- tionate quantity of the same type of goods pro- duced in Thailand. A few agricultural goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Importers are required to complete foreign ex- change transaction forms for transactions whose values exceed B 500,000 when submitting the im- port entry form at customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Payments for imports may be made through any authorized bank. Importers may freely purchase foreign currency or draw foreign exchange from their own foreign currency accounts for payments. Payments for Invisibles Remittances abroad of service fees, royalties, in- surance premiums, educational expenses, and fam- ily maintenance are permitted without restriction. Remittances of dividends and profits on all bona fide 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 THAILAND investments may be made freely. Authorized banks are also permitted to sell up to $100,000 a person a year in foreign exchange for remittances to families and relatives living abroad and up to $1 million a person a year for remittances from the personal as- sets of Thai emigrants who have permanent resi- dence permits abroad. Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions involving amounts of more than $5,000. Authorized money changers are allowed to sell up to $2,000, or its equivalent, a person in foreign exchange. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Viet Nam and the coun- tries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out or remit a maximum of B 500,000. Authorized banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange in foreign banknotes for purposes of travel without any re- striction. Nonresidents may take out foreign cur- rency notes up to the amount brought into Thailand. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to licens- ing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other products may be exported freely. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions involving more than B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange proceeds to authorized banks or deposit them in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt, except that they are al- lowed to use foreign exchange proceeds to service external obligations without having to first surren- der or deposit them in domestic banking accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers pass- ing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and inter- national organizations are exempted from this requirement. Authorized money changers are al- lowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or traveler's checks in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within 15 days of purchase. Travelers may bring in domestic or foreign bank notes and coins without restriction. ^hese include sorghum, rice, canned tuna, all types of sugar, and certain types of coal, charcoal, and textile products. Capital Capital investments in Thailand through equity participation or portfolio investments are permitted freely. Foreign investments in Thailand that receive promotional privileges from the Board of Investment under the Investment Promotion Act (B.E. 2520) are accorded various incentives and special benefits. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without restriction, but pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Repatriation of investment funds, loan repayments, and interest payments may be made without re- striction. Inflows and outflows of funds exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to completion of foreign exchange transaction forms. External bor- rowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency without restriction. Foreign currency loans may be extended to resi- dents for outward remittance or domestic use. If loans are used domestically, resident borrowers are required to convert the foreign currency obtained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign currency accounts. Direct investments abroad by Thai residents or lending to companies abroad that have at least 25 percent equity participation by Thai residents is permitted up to $10 million a year without authori- zation from the Bank of Thailand. Portfolio in- vestments and purchases of properties abroad by Thai residents require approval from the Bank of Thailand. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures ex- changes are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited unless a li- cense has been obtained from the Ministry of Fi- nance or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or platinum ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 487 Changes During 1994 Nonresident Accounts February 2. Foreign currency borrowed by residents from the Bangkok International Banking Facility, for- eign currency borrowed by nonresidents from autho- rized banks, and foreign currency arising from withdrawals from nonresident baht accounts may be freely deposited in foreign currency accounts. Nonres- ident baht accounts may be freely credited with baht resulting from the sale of foreign currency withdrawn from nonresidents' foreign currency accounts, as well as baht proceeds borrowed from authorized banks. Payments for Invisibles February 2. The limit on domestic currencies that persons traveling to Viet Nam and the countries bor- dering Thailand may remit or take out was increased to B 500,000 a person from B 250,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds February 2. Resident exporters were permitted to use foreign exchange originating from abroad to service external obligations without surrendering or depositing it in domestic banking accounts. Capital February 2. The ceiling on the amount authorized banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents in for- eign currency was eliminated. The maximum amount of foreign direct investments or loans that domestic residents may provide to their affiliates without authorization from the Bank of Thailand was increased to $10 million a year from $5 million a year. April 21. Finance and securities companies were required to hold a daily long and short foreign exchange position not exceeding 25 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of first-tier capital funds. November 4. The average weekly net long and short foreign exchange position that authorized banks are required to hold were changed to 20 per- cent and 15 percent, respectively, of first-tier capital funds from 25 percent and 20 percent, or $5 million, whichever is larger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The of- ficial buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a proportional commission of 2.50 per mil with a maximum collection of CFAF 100 and a freely de- termined charge for each transaction. The propor- tional commission must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold; the repatriation of export proceeds; the issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale of securities; capital assets; and the soliciting of funds for investments abroad, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked to the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer- ^he CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2The commission on transfers between member countries of the BCEAO is freely fixed by the banks. ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward di- rect investment and all outward investment; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in for- eign countries. The Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases in- volving violations of foreign exchange regulations for amounts of CFAF 500,000 or more and on spe- cific requests from violators of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in re- spect of exchange control has been delegated to au- thorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal and Telecommunica- tions Office (Office des postes et tetecommuni- cations), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. The forwarding and receipt through the mail by authorized intermediaries of banknotes, other than those issued by the BCEAO, are subject to control by the BCEAO. The forward- ing and receipt through the mail, by authorized in- termediaries of banknotes issued by the BCEAO are prohibited. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through autho- rized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Of- fice, or the BCEAO. All required import licenses and virtually all required export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exports of locally manufactured products, cereals and other food crops, and imports of most products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Because Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mon- aco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 489 those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of BCEAO banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes without authorization. Imports and Import Payments All imports may be made freely, with the follow- ing exceptions, for which licenses are required: (1) cement, corrugated iron, concrete reinforcement, and wheat flour, imports of which are subject to the prior issuance of a license by the Ministry of Com- merce and Transport; (2) pharmaceuticals, explo- sives, and firearms; and (3) imports of potatoes, which may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) a fiscal import duty of 5 percent to 35 percent; (3) a general tax of 5 percent to 30 percent on businesses; and (4) a tem- porary tax of 15 percent on imports of locally pro- duced goods. With the exception of the general business tax, which is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imports inclusive of fiscal import du- ties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not in- volving payment or financing through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a private nature. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domicilia- tion) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a doc- umentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been im- ported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payments are subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance; such authori- zation may be granted only on the date payment is due and only for up to 30 percent for each transac- tion involving capital goods and up to 10 percent for other transactions. For all import operations ex- ceeding CFAF 200,000, merchandise insurance must be taken out and domiciled with an approved in- surance company in Togo. Inspection of the quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- tion when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also gener- ally permitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in banknotes other than CFA banknotes; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of other means of payment. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentia- tion by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, correspond- ing to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist al- lowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of fi- nance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial in- termediaries and authorized by the respective minis- ters of finance may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAMU, must declare in writing at the time of departure all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment other than ban- knotes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange to purchase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re- exportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresi- dent deposits lodged in local banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 TOGO The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. The Togolese Office of Phosphates has a mo- nopoly over the exportation of phosphates, and the Office of Togolese Agricultural Products has a mo- nopoly over the exportation of cocoa, coffee, and cotton fiber. Exports of cereals are permitted, but li- censes are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports determines that there is a food grain surplus. The Technical Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable surplus and again before November 10 to establish the ac- tual export ceilings. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the Opera- tions Account Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date to authorized intermediaries; authorized diamond purchasing officers, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatriation of such receipts through the BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of re- ceipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 25,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval from the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but cap- ital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government; and (2) shares that are identical to, or can be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign se- curities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Togo re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance,3 and at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrow- ing. Foreign direct investments in Togo4 must be re- ported to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister may request postponement of the projects within two months of receiving the declaration. Total or partial liquida- tion of any inward direct investment or any out- ward investment also requires prior reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Togo- lese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, 3Including investments made through foreign companies di- rectly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. Including those made by companies in Togo directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by brandies or sub- sidiaries of foreign companies in Togo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 491 provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to fi- nance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circum- stances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization from the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may, for a specified number of years, be granted special privileges relat- ing to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemp- tion from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Code adopted on October 31, 1989 aims at promoting local employment and small and medium-size Togolese enterprises and at devel- oping local resources. To obtain the tax benefits un- der this code, firms must (1) provide an amount from equity equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (exclud- ing working capital), and (2) pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits include primarily exemptions from the minimum forfait tax and corporate income taxes for five years for small and medium-size en- terprises, seven years for enterprises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and ex- portation of gold to or from any other country re- quire prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga. Its external value is determined on the basis of a weighted bas- ket of currencies, comprising the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, and the New Zealand dollar. These weights are related to the shares of the curren- cies in Tonga's international transactions. The Na- tional Reserve Bank of Tonga (the central bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency. The commercial banks quote daily rates for 16 currencies1 on the basis of their values against the pa'anga. The spread between the commercial banks' buying and selling rates is ap- proximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and pur- chases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. On December 30, 1994, the central bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T$1.256 and T$1.258, respectively, per US$1.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. Commercial banks are allowed to provide forward exchange cover, but their gross foreign ex- change liabilities must not exceed US$1 million. Tonga formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22,1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for all imports, although these are generally issued freely. Import quotas ap- 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dol- lars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2For transactions with the commercial banks. Buying and sell- ing rates were T$1.253 and T$1.261, respectively, per US$1 for transactions with other organizations, including the Government. ply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural or environmental rea- sons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Tariffs, which range up to 35 percent and apply to most private sector imports, are aimed primarily at increasing revenues, but protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as beer, paint, and wire fenc- ing. Tariffs are levied at an ad valorem rate on the c.i.f. value of imports, except for a few items (petro- leum, tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages), which are subject to either specific tariffs or ad valo- rem rates ranging up to 300 percent of the c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. The maximum tariff rate, which is levied on motor vehicles, is 45 per- cent. Goods imported by the reigning monarch, by the government and the public sector, and by diplo- matic missions, goods imported under certain tech- nical assistance agreements, and personal effects are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20 percent port and services tax, except for items under the Industrial Development Incentives (IDI) Act, which qualify for concessional rates, and im- ports of government and quasi-government organi- zations, which are exempt Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within 12 months, but this regulation is not enforced. Com- mercial banks must surrender all of their foreign ex- change, apart from small working balances, to the central bank. Licenses are required for all exports, except for shipments weighing less than 10 kilo- grams. With the exception of squash, which is sub- ject to an export quota,3 the authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward granting those licenses. Ef- fective January 1, 1992, the monopoly of the Com- modities Board on exports of coconut and coconut derivatives, vanilla, and bananas was abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$l,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve re- quests for larger amounts upon submission of satis- factory documentary evidence that the underlying 3The export quota applies only to the October-December sea- son and not to the small May crop. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 493 transaction is a bona fide current international transaction. Such approvals are routinely granted without undue delay. Shipping and airline agencies may remit income earned from activities in Tonga upon producing in- come statements relating to local business activities that have been submitted to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, although so far such in- vestment remains small. Foreign investors are re- quired to apply for licenses, with approval de- pending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic production rather than compete with it are generally preferred, and se- lected sectors are reserved for Tongan nationals. Under the IDI Act, foreign investors involved in manufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inputs, a maximum 15-year tax holiday, and, on a case-by-case basis, repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, Tongan residents are not permitted to acquire financial assets abroad, although this re- striction is not enforced. Direct investment abroad requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The quota for squash exports during the Oc- tober-December season was set at 17,000 metric tons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of January 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the in- terbank market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates were TT$5.82 and TT$5.93, respec- tively, per US$1. Banks are allowed to conduct for- eign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public without limitation. Commercial banks must notify the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago in advance of any planned significant ad- justment to the exchange rate. At the end of each trading day, the Central Bank publishes a nominal rate for the Trinidad and Tobago dollar against each of the major currencies, based on a weighted aver- age of the rates at which these currencies have been trading. Trinidad and Tobago formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 13,1993. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, which acts under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank does not repatriate Trinidad and To- bago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.1 Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in one of the specified currencies. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any of the specified currencies. Foreign currency accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All goods, unless excepted for reasons of health and security, may be imported under open general license (OGL) arrangements. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded principally by state companies. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy pre- scribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. Duty-free licenses are granted to local conces- sionaire manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing industries. Where goods are sub- ject to import license, a general import license is used in addition to the duty-free license. Imports from non-CARiCOM countries2 may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satis- factorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 30 percent; the rate on agricultural produce is 40 percent. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, cloth- ing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range from 25 per- cent to 30 percent; the rate on motor vehicles is 35 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials, and all goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from customs duties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the Minister of Trade and Industry and the Tourism In- dustrial Development Company Limited (TIDCO). Payments for Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago local currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 495 there is no restriction but a customs declaration is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foodstuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted under OGL. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. There are no requirements for the repatriation of export proceeds received in foreign currencies. In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all for- eign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trin- idad and Tobago domestic currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Both resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in foreign currency notes up to US$5,000 without declaration to the controller of customs. Capital Capital transfers abroad do not require prior approval. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreign investors are required, however, to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act of 1990 in order to hold an interest in real estate or shares in local companies. Following passage of the Central Bank Amendment Act of 1993, exchange control restrictions were removed, and foreign in- vestors are no longer required to obtain approval from the Central Bank to repatriate capital or capi- tal gains. There are no limitations on borrowing by foreign investors on the local financial market. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substi- tution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agreement on the harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to ap- proved enterprises, including temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges out- lined in the Investment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is al- lowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock ex- changes is permitted among the residents of Barba- dos, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are desig- nated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for ex- change control purposes in cross-border trading. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations stip- ulate that, except with specific exemptions and per- missions granted by the Minister of Finance, (1) one party to every transaction in gold between resi- dents must be an authorized bank, and (2) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and To- bago. When appropriate, however, residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are controlled by the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not usually granted except to the mone- tary authorities, who may need to get authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments September 1. Certain agricultural items were re- moved from the negative list during the period May to September. These items included rice, flour, and vegetable oil. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs duties were reduced to the 5-30 percent range. The stamp duty was re- moved, and the import surcharge on all nonagricul- tural goods was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, the external value of which is determined in the inter- bank market in which commercial banks (including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident cus- tomers) conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. The spread between the buying and selling rates, however, may not exceed 0.25 percent. The Central Bank of Tunisia intervenes in the market by buying or selling dinars for foreign exchange. It publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the following day, at the latest. On December 31,1994, the average interbank spot rates were D 0.18521 per F 1 and D 0.9912 per US$1, respectively1. Forward rates are published daily by the Central Bank. Forward cover may be requested for a mini- mum of the equivalent of D 10 million in foreign ex- change. The forward rates published daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia are merely indicative when cover is requested for amounts equal to or more than the foreign currency equivalent of D 10 mil- lion. Different rates may be set for these requests; the authorized bank is notified thereof prior to the conclusion of the forward contract. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward ex- change cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maximum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide ser- vices are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are per- mitted among foreign currency operators. Trading Currencies quoted spot for account holdings and banknotes are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European monetary units (ECUs), Finn- ish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti di- nars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Currencies quoted spot for banknotes only are CFA francs, Luxembourg francs, and Qatar riyals. Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. on 3-month, 6-month, and 1-year foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of for- eign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank extends exchange rate guarantees to certain of- ficially guaranteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Tunisia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 6,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Ministry of Trade, which issues import and export authorization for products when required. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Algeria, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible ac- counts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special accounts in foreign currency or convertible di- nars may be opened by (1) natural persons of Tuni- sian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad and any other natural or jurid- ical persons of Tunisian nationality for their non- transferable assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (3) foreign juridical persons for their estab- lishments located in Tunisia; and (4) Tunisian diplo- mats and civil servants stationed abroad. No formalities are required for the opening of these ac- counts by foreigners; a declaration of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legiti- mately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 497 exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to under- take foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims and for pay- ments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities). Foreign accounts in convertible dinars and convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible for- eign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible currencies to the Central Bank; bank- notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a foreign account in convertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by resi- dents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) proceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irre- spective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers to other foreign accounts; (3) the pur- chase of any foreign currency from, or sales of any foreign exchange to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of perma- nent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by any natural person residing in Tunisia or by any Tunisian or foreign juridical person for their foreign currency assets in connection with their es- tablishments located in Tunisia. These accounts are essentially designed to allow their holders to cover themselves against exchange risks. They may be credited with (1) up to 40 percent of the export re- ceipts of their holders; (2) the interest generated by the amounts deposited in such accounts; and (3) transfers from another professional account of the holder, either in the same foreign currency or an- other one. They may be debited for (1) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened; and (2) any other transac- tion with general or specific authorization. Balances may also be placed on the foreign exchange market. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by natural or juridical persons residing in Tunisia with resources in foreign exchange, subject to central bank authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. Internal nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of non- resident individuals of foreign nationality residing temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the Central Bank with the following: (1) amount of transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular, the nontransferable part of remuneration for ser- vices rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's inter- nal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from an- other internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. They may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her family in Tunisia; (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia; (3) lending to residents; and (4) transfers to another internal nonresident ac- count opened in the name of the account holder. Special dinar accounts may be freely opened by nonresident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank. Such enter- prises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign ac- count in convertible dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident ac- counts in dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 TUNISIA Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or trans- ferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to cer- tain conditions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfo- lio management expenses in respect of certain secu- rities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living ex- penses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign ex- change imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the off- spring or parents of the resident account holder. In- dividuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a nonresident natural person of foreign nationality or by a nonresident juridical person. The opening of these accounts by a nonresident of Tunisian nation- ality or his or her spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global capi- tal accounts for their nonresident customers. Sub- ject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock ex- change, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of transferable Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from an- other capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total with- drawals from one or more capital accounts in a cal- endar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the subsequent year. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an au- thorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to cer- tain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the mainte- nance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capi- tal account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign na- tionality, with the exception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain condi- tions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be over- drawn. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited. All im- ports are liberalized except those that have an im- pact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cultural heritage. Some goods may only be imported temporarily, subject to an import authorization. The list of items not subject to import liberalization is set by decree. Some items, the list of which is drawn up by decree by the Minister of Trade, are subject to technical im- port controls. A countervailing import duty may be applied to any item that has been dumped or subsi- dized and that when used, is or could be detrimen- tal to the national production of a similar product. The importation of liberalized products is effected by an import certificate upon presentation of a con- tract domiciled with an authorized intermediary. Goods not subject to liberalization are imported un- der cover of an import authorization issued by the Ministry of Trade. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources out- side Tunisia, may be effected without foreign trade ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 499 formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclu- sively engaged in exporting goods or services and set up under the Investment Incentives Code pro- mulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27,1993 and companies established in a free trade zone un- der Law No. 92-81 of August 3, 1992 on free trade zones may import freely without foreign trade for- malities any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate. All im- port documents involving payments must be han- dled by an authorized intermediary. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of 12 months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. In some cases, imports des- tined for domestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are empowered to provide for- eign exchange for tourist and business travel, study and educational expenses, expenses related to travel abroad for reasons of health, and salary transfers, up to prescribed limits. The annual limits for tourist travel allowances are D 500 for an adult and D 250 for a child under the age of 10. The an- nual settlement and the monthly educational ex- pense allowances for a student are D 1,000 and D 600, respectively. Amounts exceeding these limits may be authorized by the Central Bank. Business travel allowances are granted for all exporters of goods and services, all enterprises, including liberal professions, who have declared their business turn- over during the previous year to the tax authorities, and promoters of new projects. The allowance for exporters is 10 percent of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 80,000. The annual limit on the allowance for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depend- ing on turnover, and the annual limit on the allow- ance for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on turnover declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for promoters of new projects is a maximum of D 5,000, and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Contractually employed foreign nationals and foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer up to 50 percent of their earnings; for tech- nical assistants, limits on transfers are specified in their contracts. Persons traveling abroad for health reasons may transfer up to D 750 a year for travel expenses. Ad- ditional amounts may be allowed for this purpose if the state of their health requires several trips abroad during the same year. Persons accompanying pa- tients may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. Other payments for invisibles may be made freely. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons trav- eling under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a man or woman residing in Tu- nisia whose spouse resides abroad, children living in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those trav- eling for medical reasons are exempt from the tax. The exportation of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. All exports are liberalized, except those indicated in a list estab- lished by decree. Certain products, the list of which is established by edict of the Ministry of Trade, are subject to technical export control. Liberalized items are exported upon presentation to customs of the final invoice. The exports must be domiciled within eight days of the date of shipment of the merchandise. Goods not subject to liberalization are exported upon presentation of an authorization issued by the Minister of Trade. Companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and set up under the Investment Incentives Code and companies estab- lished in a free economic zone may export freely without foreign trade formalities, subject only to customs declarations. As a general rule, all export proceeds must be repatriated within ten days of the payment due date. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Under certain conditions, approval from the Central Bank is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign currencies represent- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 TUNISIA ing the proceeds from their merchandise exports through authorized intermediaries. Resident exporters may credit up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to their profes- sional accounts (see section on Resident and Non- resident Accounts above). Balances in these accounts may be used for any foreign exchange transaction with specific or general authorization, such as payments of expenses needed for the enter- prise's activities and servicing of external obliga- tions. Nonresident companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incentives Code, nonresident interna- tional trading companies, and nonresident enter- prises constituted in a free trade zone are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign countries. However, the facilities associated with professional accounts in foreign exchange in convertible dinars apply to proceeds from services (see sections on Ex- ports and Export Proceeds and Resident and Non- resident Accounts). Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely, but importation of Tunisian dinar banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts exceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign curren- cies they are importing upon their entry into Tunisia. There is no ceiling on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign ex- change from dinar reconversion may be re-exported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be re-exported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received from abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also re- quired if the amount of foreign exchange from dinar reconversion exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 de- rived from the surrender of foreign currencies phys- ically imported from abroad. Capital All foreign direct investments carried out legiti- mately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Foreign direct investments in agriculture and fisheries, manufacturing, public works, tourism, handicrafts, transport, education and teaching, vo- cational training, the production of culture and re- lated industries, youth coordination and child supervision, health, environmental conservation, real estate promotion, and other nonfinancial activ- ities and services benefit from the incentives contained in the Investment Incentives Code, pro- mulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27, 1993. Foreign direct investments in the financial and banking sector and those carried out in a free trade zone benefit from the incentives provided for in Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985 (on incen- tives for financial and banking establishments con- ducting business essentially with nonresidents), and in Law No. 92-81 of August 3, 1992 (on free trade zones), respectively. The investment incen- tives include tax and financial benefits, as well as facilities, with regard to laws and regulations* gov- erning foreign exchange and foreign trade that are essentially oriented toward export promotion. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tu- nisia and have left the country permanently are en- titled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) if they left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;2 D 4,000 if they left between August 20,1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 if they left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 if they left after December 31, 1974; D 15,000 if they left Tunisia after December 31,1978, are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount if they are of French or Italian nationality, regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. To support their export activities, resident export- ers may, depending on their turnover for the previ- ous financial year, transfer abroad amounts ranging from D 20,000 to D 100,000 a calendar year to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity par- ticipation, and D 10,000 to D 50,000 to cover instal- lation, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representative offices. Resident financial institutions, and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency ^uch persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total value of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 501 loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D10 million and D 3 million, respectively. All other transfers by residents, the contracting of foreign loans by residents, and the extension of loans to nonresidents require approval from the Central Bank, except for investment loans extended by resident banks for nonresident industrial enter- prises with funds held abroad. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importa- tion and exportation of monetary gold. Other im- ports of gold require joint authorization from the Central Bank and the Ministry of Trade. Only den- tists, artisan jewelers, and cooperatives formed by artisans are eligible to purchase gold from the Cen- tral Bank. The exportation of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 1. An interbank foreign exchange mar- ket system was introduced. Administration of Control January 31. Law No. 94-14 became effective, mod- ifying and completing Law No. 92-81 on free trade zones. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Law No. 93-125 with the following main provisions came into effect: (1) the list of products subject to temporary complementary im- port duties was modified and duty rates introduced in 1993 were reduced by 10 percentage points; (2) the temporary surcharge on import duties and taxes was incorporated in the import duties; (3) im- port duties on certain products were modified; and (4) the service fee on imports was raised to 2 per- cent from 1.5 percent of the import duties and taxes paid. March 7. Law No. 94-41 established freedom to export and import except for commodities to be specified by decree; Law No. 94-42 became effec- tive, setting regulations for the activities of interna- tional trade enterprises. August 29. Decrees governing the following were established: (1) the list of products excluded from the regime of free international trade; (2) the modal- ities for undertaking international trade activities; (3) the procedures for technical control of imports and exports; and (4) the conditions and modalities for determining unfair import practices. Import du- ties and the value-added tax for spare parts, acces- sories, and goods destined for agriculture and fishing sectors were reduced to 10 percent and sus- pended, respectively. September 19. Raw materials and semifinished products used for the assembly of vehicles for inter- national road transport were exempted from import duties and taxes. Import duties for raw materials, semifinished goods, and other inputs used in do- mestic transformation were reduced to 10 percent. September 26. The value-added tax and import duties on equipment and inputs for equipment des- tined for energy saving and renewable energy ac- tivities were suspended and reduced to 10 percent (Decree No. 94-1998). Capital February 14. Law No. 93-120 (December 27,1993), promulgating the Investment Incentives Code, was implemented. February 28. Decrees listing the activities of sectors envisaged in Articles 1,2,3, and 27 of the Investment Incentive Code and activities of areas benefiting from the incentives provided in Article 43 of the In- vestment Incentives Code were announced. March 10. A decree establishing investment in- centives for new promoters was announced. April 12. The minimum capital requirements for international trading companies were established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of March 31,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. Tur- key follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the Turkish lira is de- termined on a daily basis. Commercial banks, spe- cial finance institutions, authorized institutions, post, telephone, and telegraphic offices (PTT), and precious metal intermediary institutions are free to set their exchange rates according to prevalent mar- ket conditions. The lowest and highest rates ap- plied in these transactions are to be reported daily to the central bank. The daily rates for foreign ex- change and foreign currency notes announced at 3:00 p.m. on each business day by the central bank are freely determined by taking into account the de- velopments in the international and domestic mar- kets. These exchange rates are mainly indicative. On March 31, 1995, the average buying and selling rates in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar were LT 41.830 and LT 41.925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks can deal freely in forward transactions within the predetermined limits im- posed by the central bank. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international prac- tices. Banks enter into swap transactions with the central bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22,1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Undersecre- tariat of the Treasury is attached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the central bank, which regulates all matters related to foreign exchange operations. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instruc- tions from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, who also issues export licenses for special cases but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-<52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Turkey notified the Fund on September 12, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions to the Government of Iraq, and on August 5,1992, that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Certain commercial transactions with the Baltic countries, the Czech Republic, Poland, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Persons holding valid Turkish passports and hav- ing permission or the right to work or reside abroad may open interest-bearing foreign currency deposit accounts or "super" foreign currency accounts, de- pending on the amount deposited and the maturity, with the head office of the central bank in Ankara. These accounts may be maintained upon the return of these persons to Turkey. Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with autho- rized commercial banks. The holders may dispose of such accounts at their discretion. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition. Imports of these goods are allowed only with a special permit from the author- ities. Old, used and reconditioned, defective, sub- standard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. But certain used goods that are not older than five years may be im- ported freely. 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 503 All commercial imports require import licenses; their length of validity is determined by the autho- rized parties and may be extended according to principles determined by the central bank. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industri- alists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for any authorized person to apply to any bank for an im- port license. The import license permits the neces- sary foreign exchange payments to be made and permits goods to be cleared through customs. Pay- ments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or through acceptance credits or prepay- ments. Partial prepayments are authorized under certain conditions. Import payments may be made through foreign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. Ex- porters and providers of services are freely allowed to use foreign exchange earned from exports of goods (excluding the portion subject to surrender requirements) and services for payment of their own imports. Regulations governing imports made without al- locations of foreign exchange from the banking sys- tem mainly affect imports of goods for personal or professional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey and temporary imports by Turkish workers em- ployed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the central bank. Since January 1,1993, various import taxes calcu- lated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of goods were consolidated into customs duties. Certain goods are subject to various rates of levy, which are trans- ferred to extrabudgetary funds ("funds list"). The import regime was liberalized in 1994 to bring it in line with Turkey's commitments for com- pleting the customs union with the EU, its relation- ship with EFTA, and its obligations under the World Trade Organization. To this end, customs duties were revised with the objective of aligning them to the common customs tariff of the EU in 12 or 22 years. Under this framework, in addition to the 10 percent reduction in the customs duty realized in 1993, a further 10 percent reduction became effec- tive on January 1,1994. Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisi- ble transactions relating to all services to nonresi- dents at home or abroad. All residents traveling abroad may carry foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $5,000 a per- son without proof of exchange allocation by com- mercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents and nonresidents without restriction. Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances ex- ceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Turkish citizens traveling abroad are subject to a tax equivalent to $100, payable in Turkish liras, regard- less of whether there are related purchases of for- eign exchange; the tax is reduced by one-half for travelers 18 years or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade, as well as those traveling to Turkish republics with the permission of the governor of the province concerned must pay the equivalent of $25 in Turkish liras, and immigrants and refugees trav- eling abroad must pay the equivalent of $50 in Turkish liras. Exempt from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas, who may leave the country by administrative permit; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and those accompanying them; (7) private students studying abroad and civil servants (and their families) sent abroad on permanent assignment; (8) spectators go- ing abroad to watch Turkish teams participating in international competitions; (9) the personnel of in- stitutions that are exempt from paying funds, who are appointed to work abroad; (10) travel, which is limited to once a year, by refugees or immigrants who have become Turkish citizens to their countries of origin; (11) academicians who are attending in- ternational congresses, symposiums, and seminars abroad; and (12) permanent residents working abroad independently. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency notes and Turkish lira notes and coins. Nonresidents and Turkish citizens working abroad who are consid- ered residents may take out foreign currency notes exceeding the equivalent of $5,000, provided that they have declared the amount upon their arrival; residents may take out foreign currency notes ex- ceeding the equivalent of $5,000, provided that they produce proof of purchase from banks and special financial institutions. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports are classified into the follow- ing categories: (1) free exports (i.e., exports not re- quiring any official permission); (2) free exports subject to registration, which covers exports of goods for which premiums are paid to the Support ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TURKEY and Price Stabilization Fund; raw materials for tex- tiles; all textiles and garments; raw and finished leather; leather garments and other leather prod- ucts; semifinished steel and iron products; natural gas under agreement with the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, products to which quantita- tive restrictions are applied, and raw vegetable oils (including olive oil) and oil seeds. The Free Export Declarations related to the goods that fall into this category must be registered by the professional in- stitutions, the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, and/or the customs administration upon the appli- cation of the exporter; and (3) exports that require the permission of the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade or the professional institutions authorized by the Undersecretariat. These include exports on credit, consignment and temporary exports, exports undertaken by the construction companies that are awarded construction and installation work abroad, or exports intended for use in international fairs and exhibitions. All companies are allowed to conduct barter trade in accordance with established procedures. Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise ex- ports must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment. If exchange receipts are surren- dered within 90 days, exporters are entitled to re- tain 30 percent of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Commer- cial banks, special financial institutions and the PTT are required to sell to the central bank 25 percent of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports and invisible transactions within a period agreed with the central bank. A system of export incentives in the form of sub- sidized credits administered by the Turkish Exim- bank is in operation. Under the Foreign Trade Companies Rediscount Credit Program (introduced in January 1990), exporters whose annual export turnover exceeds $50 million are eligible to receive credit either in Turkish liras, with the interest rate related to the rediscount rate of the central bank, or in foreign currency, with the interest rate linked to LIBOR. The Eximbank also maintains a program of preshipment credit designed to meet the financing needs of manufacturers and exporters. The credits under this program are extended for up to 120 days with fixed interest rate of between 25 percent and 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of the export commit- ment, depending on the maturity. In addition, the Eximbank provides buyers' credit facilities to sup- port Turkish exports to certain countries, including Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and some of the countries of the former Soviet Union; it provides insurance against commercial and political risks on commer- cial terms. Premiums are paid from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund for selected export products; in 1993, 110 items were eligible for these premiums. Exporters of manufactured goods exceeding $250,000 in value are eligible to deduct 5 percent of the gross value of their exports from their taxable income. Exporters holding export encouragement certificates are permitted to import inputs free of customs duties or levies for extrabudgetary funds. To benefit from this facility, exporters must under- take to achieve a certain export turnover and must present documentary proof that they have used duty-free imports in the manufacture of exported goods. Normally, the value of duty-free imports may not exceed 40 percent of the export value. The eligibility of exporters to deduct 5 percent of the gross value of the exports of manu fac- tured goods wor th at least $250,000 in the calcu- lation of the corporate tax since January 1993 has been waived, and this facility was abolished on January 1,1994. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from nonresidents for transactions processed in Turkey. Foreign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including contracting services), as well as foreign exchange corresponding to expenses incurred in the name, and on behalf of, nonresidents, may be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in kind or in the form of foreign exchange and must obtain a license from the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. In establishing partnerships or joint companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign in- vestors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of cap- ital. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law. For commercial activities other than forming a com- pany or opening a branch in accordance with the Capital and Petroleum Law, foreign investors must obtain the permission of the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Profits and dividends and the proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 505 from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the cen- tral bank. Resident individuals or corporations may invest abroad and in the free trade zones in Turkey up to the equivalent of $5 million in cash or in kind. The exportation of capital in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5 million requires the authorization of the ministry to which the Undersecretariat of the Treasury is attached. Nonresidents may transfer abroad proceeds from sales of real estate without restriction. Purchases and sales by nonresidents (in- cluding investments, partnerships, and mutual funds abroad) of all kinds of securities and other capital instruments through the banks and interme- diary institutions authorized according to the capi- tal legislation may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securities and instruments as well as the proceeds from their sale may be effected freely through banks and special finance institu- tions. Purchases and sales by residents of the securi- ties traded in foreign financial markets are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, special finance institutions, and intermedi- ary institutions authorized according to the capital market legislation and that the transfer of their pur- chase value abroad is made through banks and spe- cial financial institutions. Residents may also issue, introduce, and sell securities and other capital mar- ket instruments in the financial markets abroad. Also the issuance, public introduction, and sales of securities and other capital market instruments in Turkey by nonresidents are unrestricted within the provisions of capital market legislation. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange accounts for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs, within the margins of certain ratios set by the central bank. Gold Under a decree issued on December 21,1994, ex- ports and imports of precious metals, stones, and articles have been freed within the framework of the Foreign Trade Regime. However, only the cen- tral bank is currently authorized to import unpro- cessed gold. The central bank and the intermediary institutions that are the members of the Istanbul Gold Exchange may import unprocessed gold with- out being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime. Until the opening of the Istanbul Gold Exchange, banks, authorized institutions, spe- cial financial institutions, and intermediary institu- tions dealing with precious metals that have fulfilled their foreign exchange liabilities with the central bank are permitted to purchase and sell gold within the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Currency Notes Markets established by the central bank. Travelers may bring into or take out of Turkey pre- cious metals or stones in their possession with a value of up to $15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 15. The rate of surrender of foreign ex- change receipts to the central bank by commercial banks, special financial institutions, the PTT, and precious metal intermediary institutions was raised to 25 percent from 20 percent. December 21. Under a decree amending Decree No. 32 regarding the protection of the value of the Turkish currency, precious metal intermediary insti- tutions were added to the institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 15. Turkish nationals working or residing abroad are permitted to open interest-bearing for- eign currency accounts or "super" foreign cur- rency accounts, depending on the amount deposited and the maturity, in the head office in Ankara of the Turkish central bank. These accounts may be maintained upon the return of these per- sons to Turkey. Changes During 1995 Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 27. Communique No. 95-32/13 regarding gold deposit accounts and credits was put into ef- fect. Under the Communique, banks were autho- rized to open bank deposits in the accounts of residents and nonresidents and to extend gold cred- its to natural persons and legal entities engaged in the jewelry business in accordance with the princi- ples of banking legislation. Capital March 1. A communique regarding the standard ratio of foreign exchange net general position to the capital base was put into effect. The communique ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 TURKEY required the authorized banks to apply a maxi- mum ratio of 50 percent of their net general posi- tion to their capital base. March 11. The definition of foreign currency hold- ings, claims, and debts that are to be taken into ac- count in calculating the foreign currency liquidity ratio, and foreign exchange position ratio was mod- ified by a calculation of the liquidity ratio, and the foreign exchange ratio will also include gold hold- ings and liabilities relating to gold transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkmenistan is the Manat.1 The exchange rate system consists of a commercial ex- change (official) rate that is fixed in terms of the U.S. dollar and an exchange rate for cash transac- tions between individuals and commercial banks. On December 31, 1994, the commercial exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was Manat 75 per US$1, and the cash exchange rate was Manat 220 per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in the inter- national market. Administration of Control Under existing laws, only the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT), alone or together with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Tax Au- thority, depending on the type of operation in- volved, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Law, which came into effect November 1,1993, provides for freedom to make payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions and for nonresidents to export previously imported capital. This law gives the Government the priority right to acquire foreign exchange according to the exchange ar- rangements established by the CBT. The use of for- eign exchange reserves is controlled by the President of Turkmenistan. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlement with some Baltic countries, the Rus- sian Ferderation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in these agreements. Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. ^he national currency, the manat, was introduced on Novem- ber 1, 1993 at the conversion rate of Manat 1 to Russian ruble 500, and the official exchange rate was set at Manat 2 per US$1. External payments must be made through the au- thorized banks. Foreign Exchange Accounts Authorized banks that have received a general li- cense from the CBT to deal in foreign exchange may open foreign exchange accounts for natural and ju- ridical persons if they possess a certificate of regis- tration issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Interest is payable on balances in these accounts in the currency of the account at a rate to be determined by the authorized bank. Imports and Exports Trade with some countries is conducted under trade agreements. All goods may be imported and exported without restriction except for those on the negative list. In addition to certain items (such as arms and narcotics, and antiquities) whose trade is prohibited for national security reasons, quantita- tive and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supplies. An advance import deposit is required to be lodged with commercial banks at the rate of 100 percent. All exports require a special license. A fee is col- lected at the rate of 0.01 percent of the value of the licensed product that is sold in convertible curren- cies; the fee on exports to the Baltic countries, Rus- sia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union is 0.1 percent of the ruble value of the li- censed product. In principle, all export proceeds of private enterprises must be surrendered in full at the commercial exchange rate through authorized banks within three working days of receipt. Private enterprises are allowed to retain 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings under a special presi- dential decree. All government entities, except oil and gas producing enterprises, are required to sur- render 50 percent of their foreign exchange earn- ings to the CBT. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must possess valid passports to pur- chase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The maxi- mum amount of foreign exchange a person may purchase from authorized banks without approval 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 TURKMENISTAN from the CBT is $500; additional amounts may be granted on proof of need. All other payments for in- visibles require approval from the CBT. Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. Capital Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to the approval of the CBT. The Law on For- eign Investments in Turkmenistan permits, in prin- ciple, foreign direct investments by juridical persons with foreign participation in all sectors. In- vestors are required to obtain authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations.2 For- eign investments are protected from nationaliza- tion. The law provides that, at the request of investors, for a period of ten years the law in force at the time of registration will be applied. After re- quired tax payments have been made, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank ac- counts in national or other currencies, or trans- ferred abroad. Gold A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Laws regulating trade in gold are in effect. 2If the amount of investment is more than $500,000, the ap- proval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan is required. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 20. A procedure allowing foreign ex- change to be used temporarily as a means of pay- ment in Turkmenistan was introduced. December 10. A special exchange rate for cash transactions between individuals and authorized banks of Manat 220 per US$1 was introduced. Imports and Exports January 1. The tax on exports of goods and ser- vices was eliminated. January 1. A new procedure by which state enter- prises transfer part of their foreign exchange pro- ceeds to the Government's foreign exchange fund was introduced. December 14. A presidential decree was issued that required that all government entities, except oil and gas-producing enterprises, must sell 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to the CBT at the rate established by the CBT. Private enterprises may retain 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 10. Under a temporary regulation intro- duced by authorized banks, the maximum amount of foreign exchange a person may purchase from authorized banks without approval from the CBT was increased to $500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, the external value of which is determined in the in- terbank foreign exchange market. Certain transac- tions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. On December 31, 1994, the buying and selling rates in the interbank foreign ex- change market were U Sh 922.10 and USh931.44, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks may deal forward with cus- tomers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may impose a service charge of not more than 1.0 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Uganda formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 5,1994. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trols on behalf of the Minister of Finance but has delegated a broad range of exchange control re- sponsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bu- reaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, which has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda settles accounts in U.S. dol- lars with the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area (PTA) for Eastern and Southern African States through the PTA clearinghouse. Authorized payments, including payments for imports by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other cur- rency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Uganda maintains bilateral clearing arrangements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, but these are inoperative. Inoperative bilateral trade and payments agreements are also main- tained with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by persons with diplomatic status are designated external ac- counts. They may be credited with authorized pay- ments by residents of Uganda and with transfers from other external accounts or any other external source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external ac- counts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies from authorized dealers. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents who are exporters of goods who are earning commissions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange may operate foreign exchange accounts with com- mercial banks in Uganda. Payments made from these accounts are subject to the same regulations as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureaus. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are controlled through the import- licensing system. Foreign exchange sales to various ministries and departments must be backed by doc- uments showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Importers are provided with a renewable certifi- cate, which is valid for six months and which per- mits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The importation of pornographic materials is prohibited. Imports of firearms, ammunition, beer, soda, and cigarettes re- quire special permission. Private sector importers may purchase foreign exchange in the interbank market or in foreign exchange bureaus to pay for imports without restriction. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except for debt- service payments, are financed through the inter- bank foreign exchange market. With the permission of the Director of Exchange Control of the Bank of Uganda, residents of Uganda may transfer abroad 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 UGANDA profits, fees, and savings. The following limits ap- ply to foreign exchange that may be purchased in the interbank market or in the foreign exchange bu- reaus without referring to the Bank of Uganda: (1) travel, $4,000 a trip; (2) medical treatment, $20,000 a person to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents; and (3) education, $25,000 a person a year. Dividends may be transferred through the inter- bank market without restriction and without refer- ence to the Bank of Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce and Trade, which are valid for six months and are renewable; they may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Exporters may retain proceeds from ex- ports and sell them in the interbank foreign ex- change market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the for- eign exchange interbank market. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency banknotes and trav- eler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas loans by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguar- anteed overseas loans by resident companies or individuals. Foreign investment in Uganda is per- mitted with or without government participation. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code of 1991. In normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Mines. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 5. Uganda formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Capital August 3. The requirement to obtain approval for loans and overdraft facilities to nonresident persons was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Ukraine is the Ukrainian Karbovanets. The official exchange rates of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar, the deut- sche mark, the Russian ruble, and the Belarussian ruble are determined through competitive bidding of commercial banks at the auction conducted by the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) twice a week. The official rates for all other convertible currencies are determined daily on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in the international market. The official rate applies to all external transactions. The NBU is. the major pro- vider of the U.S. dollar funds that it has purchased from exporters during the week at the previous auction rate. The NBU may also participate in the auctions and buy foreign exchange for its own re- serves. Commercial banks may participate in the auctions without limitation provided they hold contracts for import payments; they may not partic- ipate in the auction on their own behalf. The ex- change rate for cash transactions for individuals at commercial banks is freely determined and quoted on a daily basis by commercial banks; the spread between the selling and buying rates for such trans- actions, however, must not exceed 2.5 percent. On December 31,1994, the official rate was Krb 104.200 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the NBU. Commercial banks must be licensed by the NBU to engage in foreign exchange transactions. As of Feb- ruary 28,1994, 38 commercial banks were licensed to engage in international transactions and to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. spondent accounts. Payments to and receipts from countries with which Ukraine has bilateral pay- ments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.1 Trade with all other countries is set- tled in convertible currencies. Nonbarter trade with the countries of the former Soviet Union is settled in the currencies of these countries as stipulated in the agreements, with the exception of trade through commodity exchanges, which is transacted in con- vertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents may open and oper- ate foreign currency deposits under certain condi- tions. The opening and operation of accounts in domestic currency by nonresidents is restricted. Imports and Exports Licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations are required for import transac- tions.2 There are no quantitative restrictions on imports; nontariff barriers were limited to the stan- dard rules that imported goods must meet national safety and environmental standards. The customs tariff regime contains three categories of duty rates. The first category (preferred duty rates) applies to goods entering from countries that belong, with Ukraine, to customs unions; those imported from developing countries (agricultural and industrial goods); and those imported under intergovernmen- tal preferential agreements. The rate of duty for these goods, except for tobacco and alcohol prod- ucts, is zero. The second category (concessional duty rates) applies to goods imported from coun- tries that have entered into a most-favored-nation arrangement with Ukraine and to goods imported from developing countries that are not covered un- der the first category. The average rate in this cate- gory is 6 percent. The third category applies to goods imported from all other countries; the aver- age rate in this category is 12 percent. A value- Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are made through a system of corre- *At the end of 1994, Ukraine maintained bilateral trade and payments agreements with Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hun- gary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mongolia, and the Slovak Republic. *A license fee of 0.1 percent of the total amount exported or imported is levied on all importers. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 UKRAINE added tax at the rate of 28 percent has been levied on all imported goods since January 1,1994. All export quotas and licenses, with few excep- tions, were abolished as of November 1,1994. Quo- tas and licenses apply to exports of grain, ferrous and nonferrous scrap, cast iron, coal, and goods subject to voluntary export restraint under interna- tional agreements. Exporters may obtain a quota in one of three ways: (1) by signing a state contract, under which the Government will purchase export- able goods for karbovanets at domestic market prices and use trading firms to sell them abroad for convertible currency; (2) by signing a state order to fulfill interstate barter agreements; or (3) by pur- chasing a license at the monthly auctions organized by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and local commodity exchanges. About one-fifth of the total quota for some products is earmarked for sale at the auctions. Quotas are not transferable. The exportation of manufactured goods is not subject to quotas. Regional authorities are autho- rized to export up to 5 percent of certain locally pro- duced nonmanufactured goods outside the quota system.3 Strategic raw materials falling under the special export regime may be exported only by firms that have been authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. In 1994, the number of items under the special export regime was reduced from eight to three (coal, nonferrous metals, and mineral ferti- lizers). The exportation of goods and services pro- duced by enterprises established with foreign capital investments is exempt from quota restric- tions and licensing requirements as well as from ex- port duties unless otherwise stipulated in domestic legislation or by international agreements. Effective January 1, 1994, all export taxes were eliminated. Firms must repatriate all of their foreign ex- change proceeds from exports to domestic commer- cial bank accounts within 30 days of shipment, and sell, within 5 days of repatriation, 50 percent of the foreign currency export proceeds. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by foreign firms are exempt from the surrender requirements. Forty percent of foreign exchange proceeds must be sold at the auc- tions, and the remaining 10 percent must be sold to the NBU at the official exchange rate. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services, such as the tourist industry, are also subject to the surrender requirement. Ex- ^hese include pig iron, feno-silicon, potassium chloride, sili- con carbide, artificial corundum, and urea. emptions from these repatriation and surrender re- quirements are limited to the following: (1) a few enterprises engaging in international operations, such as the international airline company, are not re- quired to repatriate their foreign exchange earnings; (2) individuals who provide services to nonresidents are not required to hold foreign exchange earnings in domestic foreign currency accounts or surrender them to the Government or the NBU; (3) exporters who need to service external debt obligations that have be&n approved by the NBU, if the maturity ex- ceeds 90 days, may retain foreign exchange needed for external debt-service obligations before surren- dering proceeds; and (4) intermediary firms in the foreign trade sector are required to surrender 50 percent of their profits in foreign exchange rather than 50 percent of revenues in foreign exchange. Residents may purchase foreign exchange with- out limit. Residents may export foreign banknotes up to $400; they may export foreign banknotes up to $2,000 with the permission of authorized banks and up to $10,000 with the permission of the NBU. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign investors may, after paying taxes and fees, transfer abroad without restriction dividends, prof- its, and other foreign exchange assets obtained le- gally in connection with their investments. Capital The contracting of external loans with maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the NBU. The NBU does not guarantee any loan. Lending to foreign borrowers also requires permission from the NBU. Foreign investments in Ukraine are governed by the Law on Foreign Economic Activity (of April 16, 1991), the Law on Income Tax for Companies and Organizations (of February 21, 1992), the Law on Foreign Investment (of March 3,1992), and the Cab- inet of Ministers Decree on Foreign Investment Re- gimes (of May 20, 1993).4 Foreign investments in most types of business are permitted, although li- censes are required in some cases. A license from the Ministry of Finance is required for investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities. A license from the NBU is required for in- vestments in the banking sector. In addition, conces- sions from the Council of Ministers are required for investments in the mining sector; such concessions 4the State Program for Attraction of Foreign Investment of December 17, 1993 came into force on March 1, 1994. The pro- gram provides foreign investors with investment incentives on tax, insurance, credit, and depreciation for 32 branches of the Ukrainian economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 513 may be for a maximum of 49 years. Foreign invest- ment in Ukraine must be made in convertible cur- rency or in kind. The Russian ruble is not regarded as convertible currency for this purpose. Tax relief is granted to enterprises established with foreign capital investments. The nature of the relief depends on the activity of the enterprise or or- ganization, its turnover, and the proportion of for- eign equity capital ownership. The basic profit tax rate is 18 percent, although special tax rates apply in certain sectors. For joint ventures whose foreign equity capital ownership is less than 20 percent, the basic tax rate is also 18 percent. Firms other than those engaged in trading and intermediating activi- ties are exempt from the profit tax for five years from the first year in which profit is recorded; there- after, the profit tax rate is reduced by 50 percent from the rates applicable to domestic enterprises. Moreover, they are granted a further five-year tax exemption from any new taxes imposed in the fu- ture. Trading firms are exempt from the profit tax for the first three years, and intermediating firms for the first two years, from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is re- duced by 30 percent from the applicable tax rate. In cases where the foreign equity capital ownership is 100 percent, taxable profits may be reduced by the amount of capital actually invested in Ukraine; ad- ditional relief may be granted for investments in priority sectors or in special economic zones. Gold The NBU grants permission to commercial banks to export and import gold and other monetary met- als. Other residents are required to obtain a license from the Ministry of Finance to deal in precious metals and stones. Permission to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabi- net of Ministers of Ukraine. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 5. Weekly auctions of nonconvertible currencies (mostly the currencies of the countries of the former Soviet Union) began to be conducted. February 25. The weekly auction for the U.S. dol- lar was resumed. October 6. The Ukrainian Interbank Currency Ex- change (UICEX) resumed its operations. October 24. The Tender Committee, which previ- ously allocated foreign exchange surrendered at the official rate, was abolished. November 27. Foreign exchange auctions began to be conducted twice a week. Imports and Exports January 1. A value-added tax on imported goods was introduced at the rate of 28 percent. January 1. The option of exporting outside the quotas if an export license was obtained on the Ukrainian Stock Exchange by paying an export duty in national currency equivalent to 5-30 percent of the price of the goods exported was discontin- ued. All export taxes were eliminated. February 15. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations issued a decree authorizing regional au- thorities to export up to 5 percent of certain locally produced nonmanufactured goods outside the quota system. March 1. Import quotas were introduced for an extensive list of goods. May 3. All import quotas were eliminated. November 1. All export quotas and licenses other than those on grain, ferrous, and nonferrous scrap, cast iron, coal, and goods subject to voluntary ex- port restraint under international agreements were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate; since November 1980, the U.A.E. dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank publishes buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On De- cember 31,1994, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6730 and Dh 3.6990, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange trans- actions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. The Central Bank maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million out- standing for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 millibn a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for com- mercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13,1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. ^he seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Distinction is drawn between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresi- dent accounts consist of those held with commer- cial banks on behalf of U.A.E. citizens working abroad; all foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates but who do not have residency; all embas- sies and diplomatic agencies in the country; all trade and financial companies, banks, and indus- trial companies incorporated outside the U.A.E. that have no local branches; and branches of local institutions in foreign countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons, but virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an in- dividual import permit. However, only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and importers may import only the commodities specified in their license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re- exported freely and without an export license to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be repa- triated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to Israel, 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 515 which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations (as specified in Article 90 of the Central Bank Act of 1980) and from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8 of 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are per- mitted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy ar- eas (Law No. 2 of 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Fur- thermore, nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Profits on foreign capital in- vested in the United Arab Emirates may be remit- ted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with, or lending to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee lev- ied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but only licensed parties may im- port gold for trade purposes. Gold bullion is ex- empt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The U.K. authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion with a view to moderating undue fluctuations in the ex- change rate.1 On December 31, 1994, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.5650 and US$1.5640, respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket exchange rates. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United Kingdom notified the IMF on July 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). The United Kingdom also notified the IMF on September 22,1994 that, in compliance with UN Se- curity Council Resolution No. 883 and 841 (1993), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Haiti. Restrictions against Iraq, as reported to the IMF on August 13,1990, continue to be enforced. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted to the United King- dom under an open general import license. The re- maining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and maintained under various European Union bilat- eral agreements with third countries that are not members of the MFA, certain steel products from the Russian Federation and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements, autonomous EU- wide restrictions on imports of certain steel prod- ucts from Kazakhstan, EU-wide tariff quotas on cer- tain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and EU-wide quotas on seven categories of goods originating in China. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (The Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese Government. Im- ports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy prod- ucts, other than butter and cheese, are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autono- mously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and live- stock products are subject to EU regulations. A few articles may be imported under open individual li- censes, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.2 Un- der the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars, when the U.K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £10 million, may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- ^he United Kingdom suspended intervention obligations with respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary systems (EMS) on September 16,1992. 2Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of na- tional security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accor- dance with international agreements. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 517 mission of their bid and the awarding of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank- notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control re- quirements on capital transfers by residents or non- residents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United King- dom or by residents abroad. However, investments involving the takeover of existing U.K. companies that are considered a vital part of U.K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has the power, under the Industry Act of 1975, to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manu- facturing undertakings. There are no restrictions or formalities on trans- actions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concern- ing the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (that is, the net amount of foreign cur- rency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35 percent non-interest-bearing deposit require- ment with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom. Gold sovereigns and Britannias are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Depart- ment of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1994 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1994, page 554.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dol- lar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and for- ward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed ap- propriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10,1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers eco- nomic sanction programs involving direct or indi- rect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), the ar- eas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces and the UN-protected areas of Croatia as specified under, respectively, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regula- tions, the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) Sanctions Regulations. It also has administrative re- sponsibility for blocked accounts of the above coun- tries, Cambodian accounts blocked in the name of the Exchange Support Fund for the Khmer Repub- lic, and certain remaining blocked Vietnamese funds. The Department of the Treasury regulates the importation into the United States of goods or services originating from the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations and restricts the sale or supply of arms and petro- leum products, regardless of origin, to UNITA (oth- erwise known as Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola) and to the territory of Angola under the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce and represented by other agencies, de- cides when to request consultation with exporting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guide- lines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bi- lateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on certain dairy products are administered by the De- partment of Agriculture through the issuance of im- port licenses. For items subject to export control— other than munitions items and items qualified be- low—the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, ex- cept those imposed under Treasury Department regulations on transactions involving the govern- ments or nationals of Cuba, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, the Government of Libya, and the governments of or entities located in or controlled from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), as well as those on imports from, and certain assets of, the Islamic Republic of Iran and on prohibited exports to UNITA or to the territory of Angola. Transfers of funds are also pro- hibited to persons in Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), or to or for the benefit of entities, wherever located, owned or con- trolled by entities in the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia/Montenegro), pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, or to or through Lib- yan financial institutions or to entities owned or controlled by the Government of Libya. Certain payments to Cuba and to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea related to authorized travel are permitted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United States notified the Fund on June 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Imports and Import Payments The importation of goods and services originat- ing in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 519 Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by the Bos- nian Serb forces and the UN-protected areas of Croatia is prohibited unless specifically authorized. Under authority of Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1993, as amended, import quotas are in effect for certain agricultural products, including cotton of specified staple lengths, certain cotton waste and products, certain dairy products, peanuts, and certain products containing sugar. Im- port quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country- of-origin basis. Quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set forth in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Most dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains bilateral textile agreements with 31 countries nego- tiated in accordance with the MFA's provisions, and 7 agreements with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States in spe- cific product categories and provide for orderly ex- pansion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine whether market disruption ex- ists or is threatened. When necessary, consultations with exporting countries are requested to establish limitations. Free trade area agreements are in force with Can- ada, Israel, and Mexico. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), which provided for duty-free treatment for approx- imately 4,400 items from 146 beneficiary develop- ing countries, has been in operation since January 1976.1 Under the program, a procedure referred to as "product graduation" allowed eligibility for duty-free treatment to be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country became competitive as defined by statute. However, the President has the authority to waive such treat- ment. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme was extended to beneficiary members of the An- dean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Common llt expired on July 4, 1993, but on August 11, Congress ex- tended the GSP until September 30,1999 and removed the coun- tries of the former Soviet Union from the list of countries that were banned as GSP beneficiaries. Market (CARICOM); cumulation allowed two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product originate in the beneficiary country. Ex- empt from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least developed" benefi- ciaries; currently, 36 countries are thus designated.2 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 24 countries and entities3 were designated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Com- merce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on instruments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the North Atlan- tic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. With the exception of publications and other in- formation materials, personal baggage, and similar items, all exports from the United States to Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by the Bosnian Serb forces, and the UN-protected areas of Croatia are prohibited unless licensed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Treasury Department. The Treasury Department administers controls on ex- ports from third countries to Cuba, and to the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, of goods of U.S. or foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nation- als, and on certain third-country exports by U.S. na- tionals to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Third- Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tom£ and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic 3Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Repub- lic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 UNITED STATES country exports by U.S. nationals to Iraq, the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), exports by U.S. nationals of arms and petroleum products, regardless of origin, to UNITA, or to the territory of Angola other than through certain des- ignated points of entry, are also prohibited. Restric- tions on exports of certain military equipment to South Africa remain in effect along with a muni- tions embargo. Exports to all other countries, except Canada, of designated strategic materials and equipment require validated licenses from the De- partment of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in offshore transactions in strategic goods involving certain countries regardless of the origin of the goods. For many commodities being exported to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, former member countries of the Council for Mutual Eco- nomic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia/Montenegro), distribution licenses may be ob- tained from the Commerce Department to cover multiple shipments. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, amended in 1985, the President can suspend the ex- portation of nonagricultural goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspen- sion of agricultural commodities may not be im- posed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a national emergency is de- clared. For agricultural commodities such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean products, and cotton, exporting companies are re- quired to participate in a reporting system designed to improve market information and allow for more orderly exporting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the governments or nationals of Cuba, and the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, or to or for the accounts of the governments and government- controlled entities worldwide of Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), the military and civilian au- thorities in those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, and certain pay- ments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran.4 Transfers of funds to persons in Iraq and in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montene- gro) are prohibited. Effective December 19, 1991, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya was prohibited from clearing funds involving third countries through U.S. banks. Payments and transfers to entities lo- cated in or controlled from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), or those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bos- nian Serb forces, are prohibited. Remittances of up to $1,000 to Cuba are allowed to aid a relative's em- igration from Cuba to the United States. Receipts of funds from Cuba and the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea are subject to blocking, as are pay- ments involving a governmental interest from Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and pay- ments involving an interest of an entity or undertaking in or controlled from the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), or those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bos- nia Serb forces. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money or- ders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must de- clare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to fed- eral and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces. The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained a provi- sion authorizing the President to suspend or pro- hibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States (the Exon-Florio Amendment) if he determines that the foreign investor might take Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Is- lamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled enti- ties involving obligations contracted before January 19,1981 are subject to restrictions, as are payments for goods or services im- ported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 521 action that would threaten to impair national secu- rity and if existing laws, except the International Economic Emergency Preparedness Act and the Exon-Florio provision itself, are not, in the Presi- dent's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. Gov- ernment. The act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. There is no restriction on the amount of cash or negotiable instruments that may be brought into or taken out of the United States; however, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers enter- ing or leaving the United States when they are car- rying more than $10,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting re- quirements for shipments of currency or bearer as- sets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substan- tial control must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose varying restrictions on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential oversight. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, may be subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. Beginning Decembers, 1981, U.S.-chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,5 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have been allowed to es- tablish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institu- tion establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements under Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of do- mestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to fi- nance the operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are sub- ject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements (cur- rently set at zero percent) in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign branches. A number of individual states (but not the federal Government) have granted fa- vorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was en- acted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal De- posit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Effective December 31,1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept foreign cur- rency deposits. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahir- iya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), and those areas of Bosnia and Herze- govina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces and the UN-protected areas of Croatia. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury Department licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and pro- cessors of gold is not required, with the same coun- try exceptions. Gold producers may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restrictions but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control ^hese are defined as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. During 1994, the United States concluded trade agreements with a number of countries. The most significant were the following: ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 UNITED STATES January 12. The Bilateral Investment Treaty be- tween the United States and the Kyrgyz Republic came into force. January 12. The Bilateral Investment Treaty be- tween the United States and Kazakhstan came into force. January 15. The Bilateral Investment Treaty be- tween the United States and Romania came into force. January 17. The United States and China con- cluded an agreement limiting textile and apparel exports from China to the United States. February 4. The Bilateral Investment Treaty be- tween the United States and Jamaica was concluded. April 30. The United States identified 37 trading partners that deny adequate and effective protec- tion of intellectual property rights. June 2. The Bilateral Investment Treaty between the United States and Bulgaria came into force. August 30. Additional restrictions on transfers to Cuba were imposed. October 2. The Bilateral Investment Treaty between the United States and Mongolia was concluded. October 16. Sanctions prohibiting direct or indi- rect financial and commercial transactions with Haiti were lifted. October 25. Blocking and restrictions concerning the authorities in, entities in or owned or controlled from, and transfers to those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by the Bosnian Serb forces were imposed. November 25. Blocking of most assets of Cambo- dia was terminated. December 16. The Bilateral Investment Treaty be- tween the United States and Uzbekistan was signed. Imports and Import Payments February 16. Kazakhstan and Romania became el- igible to benefit from the General System of Prefer- ences (GSP). March 4. Ukraine became eligible to benefit from the GSR July 1. Mauritania was suspended from the GSP. August 11. Country-by-country allocations of sugar imports subject to the tariff-rate quota were announced. August 18. Belarus and Uzbekistan became eligi- ble to benefit from the GSP. Exports and Export Proceeds January 27. A successor agreement to the Interna- tional Tropical Timber Agreement was concluded. March 12. The United States and Japan reached an agreement on opening the Japanese market to cellu- lar telephone systems. March 31. Multilateral Export Controls were elim- inated by the Coordinating Committee for Multilat- eral Export Controls (COCOM), relaxing various high-technology export restrictions to China, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union. December 12. The United States and Japan reached agreement on expanding market access in Japan for exports of flat glasses from the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan Peso. The Central Bank of Uruguay intervenes to ensure that the exchange rate will remain within the higher and lower limits of the exchange rate band (cur- rently 7 percent) and allows market rates to float freely within these limits. The Central Bank period- ically announces its intervention buying and selling rates. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Ur$5.601 and Ur$5.603, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on the cross-rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. There are no limits on the amount of foreign ex- change that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the state-owned Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, the private commercial banks, and financial and exchange houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2,1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses also must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrangement with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of bal- ances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration. The regis- trations are generally valid for 180 days, and goods must be cleared through customs during this period. The Treaty of Asuncion, signed in 1991 by Argen- tina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay, created the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). The parties agreed on a customs union that began to op- erate on January 1,1995. The most important instru- ment of the customs union is the common external tariff (CET), which consists of the tariffs and a new nomenclature (the Nomenclatura Arancelaria MERCO- SUR). There are 11 different tariff levels, ranging from zero to 20 percent. Regionally produced capital goods and telecommunications are subject to a tariff of 14 percent and 16 percent, respectively. The parties to the MERCOSUR are allowed to ex- empt up to 300 goods from the CET until the year 2001 (in the case of Paraguay, the number is 399). The tariff rates on these exempted goods are to con- verge linearly and automatically to the CET by 2001. Uruguay and Paraguay are also allowed to converge in the same way to the CET in respect of capital goods and telecommunications equipment until the year 2006 (Argentina and Brazil will con- verge to CET in 2001 in the case of capital goods and in 2006 in the case of telecommunications equipment). Buses and trucks are subject to a tariff of 20 percent, to which Uruguay may converge by 2006. The CET for cars and sugar is still under negotiation. Except for a precise number of items, which are in- cluded in the Regimen de Adecuacidn, there are no re- maining import duties among MERCOSUR countries. Duties on the imports of sugar, textiles, and ap- parel are computed on the basis of "minimum ex- port prices" (precios minimos de exportation), which, in addition, provide the basis for a sliding sur- charge to be paid by the importer, representing the difference between the minimum export and the 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 URUGUAY declared c.i.f. import price. Those minimum export prices are set by government decree but are estab- lished transitorily by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. Automobile assembly plants are allowed to im- port finished cars at a preferential tariff if they ex- port assembled automobiles or parts that are produced in Uruguay for a similar value. Imports of used cars are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invisi- bles or the exportation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds From time to time, and for special reasons (for ex- ample, stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are sub- ject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Access to the market conditions established by the bilateral trade agreements with Argentina (CAUCE) and Brazil (PEC), which allow Uruguay to export limited amounts of specific goods with preferential treatment, will be maintained until 2001, despite MERCOSUR. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and out- ward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. (In practice, however, this exception is not enforced.) The amor- tization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for indus- trial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff preferences for imports from member countries of MERCOSUR were increased to 82 percent from 75 percent. January 31. Import valuation and identification were made the exclusive responsibility of the cus- toms administration; the Bank of the Republic would retain the role of ex post comptroller of im- port transactions. July 1. Tariff preferences for imports from the member countries of MERCOSUR were increased to 89 percent from 82 percent. November 1. All import reference prices were eliminated. Changes During 1995 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariffs on imports from member coun- tries of MERCOSUR were eliminated (except for a number of products), and the CET, ranging from zero to 20 percent (with 11 different positions), would apply to most products from non-MERCOSUR countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Uzbekistan is the Sum. The official exchange rate is quoted by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan once a week1 on the basis of the foreign exchange auctions at the Re- publican Currency Exchange. Exchange rates for currencies not traded at the auction are determined from cross rates in the international market. On De- cember 31,1994, the official rate quoted by the Cen- tral Bank was Sum 25 per US$1. Foreign exchange transactions are conducted by 13 authorized banks, which are required to quote buying and selling rates with a maximum spread of 1 percent for non- cash foreign exchange transactions and 10 percent for cash foreign exchange transactions. Since October 15, 1994, all domestic payments and settlements must be effected in sum. Autho- rized banks may maintain an overall open foreign exchange position of up to 10 percent of statutory capital. Administration of Control Control of foreign exchange transactions is vested in the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Prescription of Currency Settlements with those countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Transactions with other countries are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Both resident and nonresident natural and juridi- cal persons may open and operate convertible cur- rency accounts without restriction. Imports and Exports Proceeds from exports in convertible currencies are subject to a 30 percent surrender requirement, ^ince April 1,1995, twice a week. Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Armenia, Belarus, China, Estonia, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajiki- stan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. and receipts in the currencies of the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and the other countries of the former Soviet Union are subject to a 15 percent surrender requirement. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) is responsible for negotiating trade agree- ments with nontraditional trading partners as well as those agreements denominated in hard currency with traditional trading partners, and for imple- menting foreign trade agreements and external trade policy through the issuance of licenses and export quotas. The MFER must register and review all contracts and agreements by entities requiring licenses as well as those concluded on the basis of intergovern- mental agreements and centralized deliveries. Since the November 17, 1994 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the MFER issues export licenses for 11 types of goods, in accordance with fixed quotas: cotton fiber and waste, energy products (oil, natural gas, electric power, nonferrous metals, and petro- leum products), and others. There are also certain specific goods and services (such as medicines, weapons, precious metals, uranium and other ra- dioactive substances, foreign motion pictures and videos, and research data) that require export and import licenses from the MFER. Quotas do not ap- ply to these goods or services and licensing require- ments are consistent with international procedures. A license is required for each shipment. Nine types of goods are prohibited for exportation from Uzbekistan.3 At present, Uzbekistan has three types of trade agreements. The first category includes agreements with countries other than the Baltic countries, the Russian Federation, and other countries of the former Soviet Union, that focus only on defining trade regimes (tariffs, duties, etc.). In these agree- ments there are no indicative lists of goods, and trade is generally conducted in freely convertible currencies. The second category of trade agree- ments is based upon convertible currencies and a list of indicative goods that the country is selling. The delivery of such goods is not compulsory be- cause governments do not agree to supply such goods. Commercial enterprises carry out such 3 Flour and cereals from state resources, livestock and poultry, meat, butter and dry milk, tea, sugar, ethylene alcohol, and an- tique items. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 UZBEKISTAN transactions through contracts. Agreements in this category are those with the Baltic countries, Be- larus, Armenia, and until 1994, Eastern European countries (which are currently in the first category). In 1992, China, Indonesia, and Malaysia were also in this group. The third category includes agree- ments with the Baltic countries, the Russian Feder- ration, and other countries of the former Soviet Union, in which there are indicative lists, as well as lists of commodities to be supplied on a mutual basis.4 Under these trade agreements governments assume responsibility for mutually agreed supplies and are thus guarantors of the contracts, which are set in freely convertible currencies. Export duties ranging from 5 percent to 50 percent are levied on some 65 items. Art items are subject to a tax of 100 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, in- cluding transportation, is made available automati- cally once the underlying merchandise transactions have been approved. Resident individuals are al- lowed to buy up to $300 in foreign exchange from authorized banks that stamp their passport to indi- cate the amount of the purchase. Foreign exchange in excess of this amount is not available. No docu- mentation is required for exports of less than $500 in foreign exchange; for amounts in excess of $500, it is necessary to provide a certificate from autho- rized banks in Uzbekistan. There are no restrictions on bringing foreign currency into Uzbekistan. Nonresidents are allowed to take freely convert- ible currency out of Uzbekistan. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to pro- ceeds from exports. Capital Enterprises may establish joint ventures as for- eign direct investment with the approval of the Ministry of Finance (as of January 1,1995, the Min- istry of Justice). Foreign equity capital participation of up to 100 percent is allowed. Joint ventures are exempt from the profit tax during the first two years after registration; joint ventures with a foreign equity capital share exceeding 50 percent are ex- empted from the profit tax during the first five years. Joint ventures are allowed to export their 4Clearing arrangements are in effect with Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. products and import inputs without licenses and to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings. Remit- tance of the foreign investors' share of profits is guaranteed, and the repatriation of capital is not restricted. Gold Trade in gold is prohibited (with the exception of jewelry and collectibles); however, transactions in gold may be conducted by the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, and the National Bank for For- eign Economic Activity with the approval of the Government. Joint ventures operating in the pre- cious metals sector may export a portion of their output, corresponding to the share of profits of the foreign participant, without restriction. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewelry or personal effects. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Authorized banks were permitted to carry out transactions in foreign banknotes. April 15. The official exchange rate of the sum-coupon in terms of the U.S. dollar and other currencies would be determined in weekly trading sessions on the Uzbek Republican Currency Exchange. July 1. The sum was introduced as the national currency, and its external value was set at Sum 7 per US$1. Imports and Exports January 1. The tax on foreign exchange proceeds was reduced to 15 percent from 35 percent, and the mandatory surrender requirement at the ratio of 15 percent and at the official exchange rate was introduced. January 21. All import tariffs were eliminated un- til July 1,1995. April 15. The tax on foreign exchange proceeds was replaced with the surrender requirement, whereby 15 percent of proceeds are to be surren- dered to the Central Bank and 15 percent of pro- ceeds are to be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund. November 15. The full amount of proceeds in con- vertible currencies subject to the surrender require- ment was required to be transferred to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu, the external value of which is determined on the basis of an un- disclosed transactions-weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies, consisting of a basket of currencies of its major trading partners. The Re- serve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign ex- change daily, and buying and selling rates of thevatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted twice a day within margins ranging be- tween 0.25 percent and 0.30 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the com- mercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis and buys and sells foreign exchange only in trans- actions with commercial banks for the Govern- ment's account or for commercial bank operations. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 111.80 and VT 112.36, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 1,1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as explosives and dan- gerous drugs. The importation of frozen chicken, chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, tran- sistor and telephone equipment, and television aerials is restricted through import-licensing ar- rangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products—rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products—under a scheme designed to provide funds for the Vanuatu Cooperative Federation. Currently, about two dozen importers pay a commission of 3 percent (4 percent in the case of tobacco products) to the cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad valo- rem basis on the c.i.f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally subject to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports, based on the duty-inclusive import value. Under a regional trade agreement that came into operation in September 1994, canned tuna from the Solomon Islands and tea from Papua New Guinea may be imported free of import duty. Goods imported for a specified end use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re-expor- tation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are im- posed on exports. The exportation of logs has been banned for environmental reasons since 1990 al- though exemptions have been granted in certain circumstances. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother of pearl, aquarium fish, and crustaceans1 are subject to authorization by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Ex- ports of copra, cocoa, and kava are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB); however, exports of kava can be un- dertaken by individuals subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts having a special value ei- ther as a result of ceremonial use or because they Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 VANUATU are more than 10 years old are subject to authoriza- tion from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on timber products and some other minor exports. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. j Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments September 1. A new regional trade agreement came into operation that exempted from tariff canned tuna from the Solomon Islands and tea from Papua New Guinea. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The exportation of round logs and square flitches was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Boli- var, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1994, the official rate of the Central Bank of Venezuela was Bs 170 per US$1. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Tourist establishments are allowed to offer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of purchases of foreign currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as of July 1,1976. Administration of Control Under the system of exchange controls estab- lished on July 11,1994, the newly created Exchange Administration Board and the associated Technical Administration Office are responsible for the ad- ministration of exchange transactions. These bodies were established initially by presidential decree, but the powers to designate an Exchange Administra- tion Board were formalized subsequently in a new foreign exchange law, dated December 1,1994, and signed into law in April 1995, under which the Pres- ident of the Republic may establish exchange re- strictions when warranted by the economic and financial conditions of the country. When required, export and import licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of De- velopment, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Relations, depending on the product. The Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, over- sees the registration of foreign direct investments, contracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through ac- counts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing requirements for environ- mental, health, or security reasons. The importation of military arms must be authorized by the Defense Ministry; the importation of nonmilitary weapons and ammunitions must be authorized by the Minis- try of Domestic Affairs. At the end of 1994, some 54 tariff items, of which 17 were chemicals used in drug production and approximately 29 were agro- industrial products, were subject to Legal Regime No. 2 and required approval from the import office. Quantitative restrictions apply to a small number of agricultural imports. Applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for all imports must be ap- proved by the Exchange Administration Board in accordance with official quarterly targets for net in- ternational reserves. Prior to consideration by the Exchange Administration Board, all requests must be processed and verified by the Technical Admin- istration Office. Applications are approved as long as the importer complies with the required admin- istrative procedures. However, delays are being ex- perienced in processing import applications and in the selling of foreign exchange. Most customs tariffs on manufactured goods are on an ad valorem basis; there are four basic rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent, ex- cept for motor vehicles, which are subject to a spe- cial regime under the Andean Pact. The common external tariff on motor vehicles is 35 percent for passenger cars; 15 percent for cargo and commer- cial vehicles (except for cargo vehicles under 4,500 kg., such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 25 percent); and 3 percent for imported components and parts for vehicles assembled in the member countries. The importation of used vehicles is pro- hibited, with the exception of hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. The trade liberalization program initiated in 1989 is now virtually complete. Specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the tariff code (e.g., mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled prod- ucts, and bituminous substances). In addition to customs tariffs, all imports are sub- ject to a customs service charge of 1 percent. Storage 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 530 VENEZUELA charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Marga- rita Island enjoy a special customs regime that in- cludes exemptions from customs tariffs. Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela extend duty- free access to each other's imports. Duty-free entry is also granted to certain goods originating from the member countries of the CARICOM region. Venezu- ela maintains a bilateral trade agreement with Chile, which aims at a gradual reduction of tariffs on each other's imports and at a coordination of the tariff structure with other trading partners. On De- cember 29,1994, the law approving the Trade Treaty of the Group of Three was passed and became effec- tive on January 1,1995. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be authorized by the Exchange Administration Board. The annual limits on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel abroad are as follows: $1,000 a year for travel to Car- ibbean destinations; $3,000 for travel to the United States and Mexico; and $4,000 for travel to other des- tinations. Monthly remittances to students abroad, in addition to enrollment fees, are allocated accord- ing to level of study as follows: $700 for secondary school students; $1,000 for undergraduate students; $1,500 for single postgraduate students; and $2,500 for married postgraduate students. Remittances from senior citizens to individuals are limited to $200 a month, and remittances to pensioners and re- tirees of Venezuelan institutions are limited to $1,000 a month. Remittances of dividends resulting from investments associated with debt-to-equity conver- sions may not exceed 10 percent of the total invest- ment for a three-year period from the date it was registered (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds There are no controls or restrictions on exports. Export proceeds are subject to surrender require- ments and must be sold to the Central Bank through authorized foreign exchange dealers.1 PDVSA exports are subject to a surcharge of 8 percent. Exporters may retain up to 10 percent of the foreign exchange to meet commitments abroad. 1Prior to June 27, 1994, only the state petroleum company (PDVSA) and its Venezuelan affiliates were required to surren- der their foreign exchange earnings, although they were allowed to maintain working balances of foreign exchange at a level pre- approved by the Board of the Central Bank of Venezuela. Foreign exchange proceeds of loan disbursements to the public sector were also required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Exports of agricultural commodities, with the ex- ception of those exported to Andean Pact member countries, are entitled to a fiscal credit at the rate of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value in the form of a negotia- ble bond that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for tax payments. Fiscal credits for manufactured exports have been re- placed by a system of drawback of customs duties that are paid on imported inputs used in export pro- duction. Drawbacks take the form of tax reimburse- ment certificates issued by the Ministry of Finance. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have monopo- lies over the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The law phasing out export tax values applicable to exports of hydrocarbons was promulgated on July 1, 1993. This law established the following percentage reductions in the tax rates: 16 percent in 1993, 8 percent in 1994, 4 percent in 1995, and elimination by the end of 1996. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, except that foreign coins other than gold coins may not be imported for commer- cial purposes. Capital Capital outflows not related to the amortization of external debt and the repatriation of capital by foreigners are prohibited. Foreign direct invest- ments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors are sub- ject to specific regulations. Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are reserved for na- tional ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be regis- tered with the SIEX after the fact, and approval is au- tomatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign invest- ments in the financial sector are allowed (beginning in 1994) in accordance with a new banking law. For- eign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Vene- zuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commerce Code; the SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. The reinvestment of profits does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. Sales of foreign exchange for the repa- triation of capital are subject to the authorization of the Exchange Administration Board. Foreign inves- tors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the SIEX of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 531 Certain external public debt can be converted into equity. In accordance with Decree No. 2530 of September 28, 1992, as amended by Decree No. 99 of March 23, 1994, the Central Bank will purchase the debt instruments at a price fixed at 20 percent above the average price prevailing in the market for those instruments within the ten banking business days before the date of conversion. The eligible ar- eas are infrastructure (ports, bridges, and railways); aqueducts and water treatment plants; terrestrial and fluvial transportation; wholesale markets for agricultural products (including construction, maintenance, and administration); educational in- stitutions; funds for financing research and studies for Venezuelan students in Venezuela or overseas; and medical assistance centers. The maximum com- ponent of the investment to be covered by the conversion of the external public debt will be deter- mined by the Ministry of Finance. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or public debt securities denominated in domestic cur- rency), which is then deposited into a trust account opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (nor- mally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of the trust account and releases the funds in step with the im- plementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must submit in advance a timetable for the investment and its do- mestic component to be financed through debt con- version.) To further ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementation of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of pri- vate external debt into private domestic debt or eq- uity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized dealers, ex- change houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are reserved for the Central Bank. The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank. Under the terms of the agreement between the National Executive and the Central Bank, imports of non- monetary gold may be regulated. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that the exported gold bars will be reimported after undergoing processing that is not available in the country and that the reimported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 28. The authorities of Venezuela accelerated the rate of depreciation of the crawling peg exchange rate, previously set at the average daily rate of depre- ciation of Bs 0.15, and allowed the bolivar to depreci- ate by about 5 percent during the ensuing week. May 4. The Central Bank of Venezuela introduced a system of daily foreign exchange auctions for for- eign exchange receipts from the oil sector, limiting the amount on which participants in the auction could bid and requiring that commercial banks resell foreign exchange acquired in the auctions at no more than Bs 0.20 above the auction rate. As a result of these measures, a dual exchange market emerged. May 24. The Central Bank modified the auction system to eliminate the restrictions that had given rise to a dual market and began to sell foreign ex- change at the highest offer price, while allowing the resale of U.S. dollars at the market-determined ex- change rate. June 27. The foreign exchange market was closed, and a comprehensive system of exchange controls covering all current and capital account transac- tions was introduced. July 11. The exchange market reopened under a pegged exchange regime, and the exchange rate was set at Bs 170 per US$1. Administration of Control July 11. An Exchange Administration Board with the responsibility of managing foreign exchange controls was created. December 1. A new Foreign Exchange Law was approved. The Foreign Exchange Law was subse- quently returned to Congress for reconsideration after the President changed 22 of 30 articles. The law was finally signed into law in April 1995 but has not yet been published in the Official Gazette. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. All foreign exchange transactions take place either on the inter- bank market, which began operations on October 14,1994, or transitionally on the foreign ex- change trading floors of the auction markets lo- cated at the branches of the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBVN) in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Spot and forward transactions are permitted between the Vietnamese dong and six other currencies.1 Trading must take place at exchange rates within ranges stipulated daily by the SBVN. Only the SBVN, state-owned banks, such as the Bank of Investment and Development, shareholding banks, joint-ven- ture banks, and branches of foreign banks may par- ticipate in the exchange markets. Foreign exchange (only spot U.S. dollars) in the auction market is held twice a week in Hanoi (Tuesdays and Thursdays) and three times a week in Ho Chi Minh City (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays). About 80 operators, consisting of foreign exchange banks, foreign trade organizations, and companies that produce gold are licensed for the Hanoi Center and about 100 are licensed for the Ho Chi Minh City Center.2 The centers obtain bids for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange before each session. Economic entities that need foreign exchange for their import needs or debt-repayment obligations are allowed to submit their bids to the market seven days before the due date of payment. Banks are re- quired to ensure that economic entities' applica- tions for foreign exchange purchases conform with current foreign trade and exchange restrictions (such as the requirement to have an import license) and that they actually possess resources before en- gaging in a transaction. The final (closing) rate at each trade session is the fixing rate. Between the end of one session and the opening of the following session, all commercial banks are required to buy at the fixing rate and sell at a rate within a maximum margin of 0.5 percent of the fixing rate. On Decem- ber 31,1994, the average buying and selling rates in Including deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. ^An annual participation fee of $200 is levied in dong; in addi- tion, a commission of 0.01 percent is payable on each transaction in dong by purchasers of foreign exchange, with a maximum of $100. The trading floor has a management board composed of four state bank employees and three commercial bank employ- ees; a representative of the SBVN serves as the chairman. the interbank market were D 11,045 and D 11,056, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the SBVN. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which supervises the opera- tions carried out by the foreign trade organizations (FTOs) and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade transactions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. FTOs and firms engaged in in- ternational trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports to the State Planning Committee; revisions of the plans may be requested every three months. Most grants in convertible cur- rencies from bilateral official donors and interna- tional organizations are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investment is monitored and coordinated by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Cambodia are settled under a clearing arrangement in domestic currencies at a bi- laterally agreed exchange rate of D 12 per 1 Cambo- dian riel. Bilateral payments agreements with Mali and the Syrian Arab Republic have been inopera- tive for several years. In 1993, Viet Nam also en- tered into a bilateral payments arrangement with Malaysia, but the implementing guidelines are yet to be issued. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong; however, they may not open interest- yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Vietnamese citizens are allowed to sell foreign ex- change in their possession to banks, or to deposit it into interest-bearing foreign currency bank ac- 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 533 counts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be withdrawn for payments or transferred to other units or individuals. Savings accounts in foreign currency for households were introduced in May 1991. The minimum interest rate on these accounts is 3.2 percent for time deposits and 1.5 percent for sight deposits. Imports and Exports Manufacturing firms and local authorities are al- lowed to conduct trade; some export transactions and all import transactions require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade. Trade transactions are car- ried out by about 700 firms, including 140 FTOs, that produce exportable goods or purchase them from producers, but trade of certain products is reg- ulated by quotas. About 200 producers have tempo- rary or permanent trading rights, which allow them to export and import directly; about 160 foreign- owned or joint-venture firms trade directly with foreign partners. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent foreign direct trading rights, whereas those with an annual export turnover in the range of $2-5 million may obtain temporary foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or trade with an FTO. Decree No. 114 entered into force in April 1992; it permits private commercial trading houses to engage in import and export activities. During 1994, imports of the following products were prohibited: (1) weapons, ammunition and ex- plosives, and military equipment; (2) drugs and toxic chemicals; (3) dangerous and unhealthy cul- tural products; (4) "reactionary and depraved" cul- tural products; (5) fireworks and children's toys that detrimentally influence personality, education, social order, and safety; (6) most used consumer goods; (7) most left-hand drive cars; and (8) materi- als and additives required for making cigarettes. All import quotas are formally approved by the Gov- ernment. The State Planning Committee, in coordi- nation with the Ministry of Trade, may impose ad hoc temporary quantity controls. During 1994, quantitative controls were placed on, among other items, fertilizers, electric appliances, and sugar.3 The issuance of import licenses is on a shipment- by-shipment basis for all products. Import tariffs range up to a maximum of 200 percent, with some 29 rate schedules. Machinery and equipment as 3Quotas will remain on these items in 1995, but the list of im- ports subject to quotas is expected to be reduced from 15 items in 1994 to 7 items in 1995. well as medicine are exempt from tariffs, while high tariffs of 50 percent and above are applied to gar- ments and footwear, soft drinks, and cosmetics. Au- tomobiles are subject to a tariff of 200 percent. Local FTOs are permitted to export all commodi- ties, and local firms may import the commodities that they need for production. The procurement of exportable goods is normally unrestricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a minimum export price prevails. Only exports of rice are subject to a quota. For rice, crude oil, prod- ucts made of wool and rattan, and re-exported goods, export licenses must be obtained for each shipment. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Ministers, export earnings are subject to various surrender requirements, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this regulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, the authorities have tolerated full retention of foreign exchange receipts. All receipts must be repatriated within 30 days, except for special cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such as for firms with marketing or representative activi- ties abroad. Organizations and enterprises must de- posit all foreign exchange proceeds in foreign exchange accounts at domestic commercial banks that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange busi- ness in Viet Nam. Limits on foreign exchange hold- ings in such accounts are set by the commercial banks using rules set by the SBVN. Deposits in ex- cess of those limits must be sold to the commercial banks. While foreign exchange must normally be deposited in banks in Viet Nam, firms that are per- mitted to open branch offices abroad may be granted special permission to deposit these funds in foreign accounts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. As of Novem- ber 1, 1994, the foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad was raised to $5,000 for each trip, but travelers may use their own foreign exchange. Re- mittances of profits are subject to a tax of 5- 10 percent. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the SBVN. Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles transac- tions in foreign exchange accounts at domestic commercial banks, according to the same rules and conditions that apply to export proceeds. While such funds must normally be deposited in banks ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 VIETNAM within Viet Nam, firms in the aviation, shipping, postal, and insurance sectors, as well as commercial banks, finance companies, and other firms permit- ted to open branches abroad may be granted special permission to deposit these funds in foreign accounts. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by a for- eign investment code approved by the National As- sembly in 1987 and amended in December 1992. The code provides for three forms of foreign invest- ment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese pri- vate enterprise or state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include (1) a 50- to 70-year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent on the remittance of profits abroad; and (3) profit taxes to be paid at rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit-making year (foreign joint ventures in priority sectors are, however, exempt from the tax in their first two years of eligibility, and the tax rate is halved in the following two years). In 1992, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to participate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provisions for repatriating profits were also amended to allow the use of domestic currency to purchase and export domestically produced goods and retain the proceeds from these exports abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment li- censes is entrusted to the State Committee for Co- operation and Investment for projects under $1 million; for projects over $1 million, the provin- cial authorities concerned are consulted. Since 1988, some 1,000 projects have been approved, with a total committed capital of about $11 billion. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatri- ated; however, in practice, the conversion of do- mestic currency profits into foreign currency for repatriation is governed by the prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by foreign investors but must be leased from the state. Beginning in October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for pro- duction and business purposes have been permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow di- rectly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the SBVN the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license from the SBVN. The author- ity of the provincial council to issue gold import licenses was withdrawn in 1989. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement October 14. The interbank foreign exchange mar- ket began operation, permitting spot and forward transactions in six currencies. Trading must take place within trading ranges stipulated by the SBVN. Imports and Exports January 19. Imports of most used consumer goods were prohibited. July 1. Export licenses are required only for crude oil, rice, products made of wood and rattan, and re- exported goods. September 5. Organizations and enterprises were required to deposit all foreign exchange proceeds earned at home and abroad in foreign exchange ac- counts at domestic commercial banks. November 7. New inspection standards intro- duced on a range of exports and imports, including imports of petroleum, fertilizers, electronic goods, unassembled machines and equipment, steel and Pharmaceuticals, and exports of crude oil, rice, rubber, coffee, peanuts, tea, knitwear, and garments. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles September 5. Organizations and enterprises must deposit all foreign exchange proceeds from invisi- bles in foreign exchange accounts at domestic com- mercial banks. However, firms in the aviation, shipping, postal and insurance sectors, as well as commercial banks, finance companies, and other firms permitted to open branches abroad, may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 535 granted special permission to deposit these funds in foreign accounts. Commercial banks, finance companies, and other firms permitted to open branch offices abroad that already have licenses to hold foreign deposits abroad need not be relicensed. November 1. Foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is raised to $5,000 from $3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Sa- moa Tala. Its exchange rate is determined on the ba- sis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Western Samoa's main trading part- ners. The Central Bank of Samoa has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On December 31,1994, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were US$0.4117 and US$0.4027, respectively, per WS$1. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dol- lar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Western Samoa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from October 6,1994. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the Central Bank's approval. How- ever, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank—the only authorized banks—are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount and others up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions on currencies that may be used for making or receiving payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and residents who earn foreign ex- change in the normal course of their business may open, with the approval of the Central Bank, exter- nal or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. No other distinction is made between the accounts of residents and non- residents of Western Samoa. There are no import-licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, the importation of which requires prior approval from the Central Bank, which does not, for safety reasons, grant approval for imports of cars more than five years old. Ap- provals for this item are, however, granted liberally. Imports with a c.i.f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c.i.f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draft. Imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments are ef- fected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis and assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Most products are subject to a tariff of 35 percent. The tar- iff rates on machinery and agricultural inputs are generally levied at 20 percent or lower, while those on motor vehicles are levied at 50 percent. In addi- tion, an import excise tax is levied on the value of a limited range of imports, inclusive of import duties. That tax is, for example, either 50 percent, 60 per- cent, or 70 percent on passenger cars, according to engine size. Approved enterprises producing goods for export may receive full or partial exemption from customs duties and excise tax paid on capital equipment, motor vehicles for business use, build- ing materials, and raw materials and components. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted when applica- tions are supported by documentary proof that cap- ital transactions are not involved. The Central Bank's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equiva- lent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 537 age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allow- ances. A daily allowance of WS$300 a person is al- lotted for business travel, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank grants supplementary allo- cations against evidence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by documentary evidence confirming that the benefi- ciary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remit- tances, but the amount requested must be sup- ported by documentary evidence for costs (e.g., fees, accommodation, and meals) and must be in line with the prevailing costs in the countries of study. Residents of Western Samoa with depen- dents living abroad may remit, from personal re- sources, an amount not exceeding WS$2,000 a donor a year to support such dependents. The Cen- tral Bank considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remit- tances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need central bank approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not re- patriated during the contract may be repatriated at the end of the contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic cur- rency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on re- mittances of dividends at the source and on interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an au- thorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but may not bring in any domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank, as does all borrowing abroad by residents, including banks. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for spe- cial family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investment in specified activities in West- ern Samoa is encouraged. Under the Enterprises In- centive Act, persons engaged in approved enterprises are granted some relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital must be approved by the Central Bank; such ap- proval is granted when the appropriate documenta- tion is supplied. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on im- ports or exports of gold. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement October 6. Western Samoa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Ye- meni Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in- tervention currency, at YRls 12.01 per US$1.1 On December 31, 1994, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 12.00 and YRls 12.02, respectively,2 per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for 12 other currencies3 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The official rate applies to oil exports, imports of wheat and flour, as well as to payments of interest and principal on public external debt, government receipts from nonresidents, official travel abroad, limited allocations of foreign exchange for students studying abroad or residents traveling abroad for medical treatment, the Government's transactions with Yemeni embassies, payments for hotel bills and airline tickets by non-Yemeni nationals, and payments to nonnationals working for the Govern- ment. A diplomatic accounting rate of YRls 5 per US$1 is used to convert the salaries and allowances of staff working in Yemeni embassies abroad to the local currency.4 Foreign embassies, oil compa- nies, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agen- cies are authorized to sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank at the incentive rate of YRls 25 per US$1. Part of expatriates' salaries paid by oil com- panies are required in principle to be converted at the incentive rate. The incentive rate also applies to imports financed under bilateral and multilateral assistance, and to imports of certain medicines. All other foreign exchange transactions take place in the parallel market. There are two rates in effect in the parallel market —the free market rate, which was YRls 103 per US$1 at the end of 1994, and the fixed rate of YRls 84 per US$1, which was set in mid-November 1994 by the oversight committee es- ^he dinar of the former People's Democratic Republic of Ye- men (YD) is also circulating as legal tender at the rate of YRls 26 per YD 1 but is gradually being withdrawn from circula- tion. The exchange rate was changed to YRls 50.04 per US$1, ef- fective March 29,1995. Effective March 29, 1995, the buying and selling rates were changed to YRls 50 and YRls 50.08, respectively, per US$1. 3Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jor- dan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. ^he difference between the diplomatic rate and the official rate is paid to the Central Bank by the Ministry of Finance. tablished under the 1992 Law on Money Changers. This committee, consisting of representatives of the commercial banks, money changers, the business community, and a central bank observer, is required to monitor conditions in the market and set the rate in accordance with market indicators. The money changers operate both inside Yemen and in neigh- boring countries (mainly in Saudi Arabia), where they acquire foreign exchange primarily from expa- triate Yemeni workers, which they remit to their of- fices in Yemen, which credit the workers' accounts. The great majority of parallel market transactions take place at the free market rate, and most private sector foreign exchange transactions take place in the parallel market. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to operate in the parallel market. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity budget pre- pared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Cen- tral Bank. All but a few imports require a license is- sued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade. Licenses are sent directly to banks opening letters of credit. Commercial banks must provide an implementa- tion guarantee in Yemeni rials equivalent to 2 per- cent of the value of the import. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. Com- mercial banks operate in the official foreign ex- change market only as agents for and on behalf of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency With the exception of hotel bills and airline tick- ets of nonresidents, which must be paid in foreign currency at the official rate, there are no prescrip- tion of currency requirements. Foreign Exchange Accounts Commercial banks are permitted to open freely transferable foreign currency-denominated accounts for residents and nonresidents, provided that the funds in these accounts are derived from (1) foreign currency transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange 538 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 539 receipts from exports; (3) income from services ren- dered abroad or to nonresidents; (4) transfers from other freely transferable foreign currency accounts; or (5) foreign currencies, traveler's checks, or bank checks that have been declared to customs. These accounts may be used to (1) finance licensed im- ports; (2) transfer foreign exchange abroad without prior approval from the Central Bank; (3) withdraw foreign currency in cash; (4) make transfers to an- other freely transferable or nontransferable foreign currency account; and (5) pay expenses and bank commissions. Commercial banks are permitted to open non- transferable accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency for residents and nonresidents. Funds deposited in these accounts may derive from (1) transfers from transferable or nontransferable foreign currency accounts; (2) foreign currency bills, traveler's checks, or bank checks, regardless of source; or (3) bank interest in the same foreign cur- rency in which the account is denominated if it is the going rate on world money markets. These ac- counts may be used for (1) transfers to finance li- censed imports; (2) local payments for a transaction in foreign exchange; (3) foreign transfers related to the operations of the account holder, subject to a maximum of $10,000 for each transfer, with trans- fers in excess of these limits requiring prior ap- proval from the Central Bank; (4) payment of foreign currency bills or other foreign exchange in- struments that a bank agrees to sell, debiting the ac- count, in order to cover the expenses of the account holder or his designee, provided that such amounts do not exceed $10,000 for each transfer; and (5) ex- penses and bank commissions. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank and is approved by the Su- preme Council for Economic, Oil, and Investment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. Most other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. Imports of capital equipment by foreign oil companies do not require a license. Also, all enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of $5,000 for each unlicensed shipment to meet emer- gency requirements. The value of imports under this facility is not allowed to exceed $50,000 a year for each enterprise. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign ex- change to establish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their business activities up to a limit of $40,000 with the authorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the permission of certain government agencies, and imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat or flour may obtain the necessary foreign ex- change from the Central Bank. Imports of other commodities must be self-financed, and foreign ex- change may be obtained from any source other than the Central Bank. The commercial banks are autho- rized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self- financed. The commercial banks are thus autho- rized to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Cen- tral Bank. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 percent for recon- struction related to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. A conversion rate of YR ls 18 per US$1 is ap- plied to all imports for the purpose of customs valuation. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments, al- though amounts sold by the Central Bank at the of- ficial exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to students studying abroad as well as to individuals seeking medical treatment abroad; the amount allowed for treatment depends on the patient's destination and may not exceed $2,500. Larger amounts are granted on presentation of an official medical report. There are no restric- tions on outward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate workers. Payments of hotel bills and airline tickets by non-Yemeni nationals must be made in foreign currencies. The exportation of Ye- meni rial banknotes is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. All exports must be registered for statistical purposes on forms is- sued by banks. Exporters of products other than pe- troleum may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts to finance imports of either their own inputs or any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Exporters do not have to repatriate or surrender their foreign ex- change proceeds, which they may retain in free for- eign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be repatriated. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign banknotes. The importation of Yemeni rial bank- notes is prohibited. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted. Foreign direct investment is subject to the provi- sions of the Investment Law administered by the Public Investment Authority. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and na- tionals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquidation in the currency of investment. In practice, investors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provisions and to repa- triate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public ne- cessity, and then only with compensation and per- mission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Public Foreign Investment Authority for projects deemed to be economically viable and socially acceptable; a rea- sonable timetable for completion and other condi- tions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for five years to approved projects that meet specific economic criteria. The registration of direct foreign investments and the authentication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Public Investment Authority. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Cen- tral Bank, which also maintains accounts of out- standing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement June 7. Commercial banks were prohibited from operating in the foreign exchange market on behalf of customers. November 15. A fixed parallel market exchange rate of YRls 84 per US$1 was set by the oversight committee of the Law on Monetary Changers. Imports and Import Payments May 1. Imports of low-quality rice are no longer financed by the Central Bank at the official rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position as of December 31,1994) •*• oYtv* Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the New Zaire.1 In princi- ple, the external value of the new zaire is deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply conditions prevailing in the foreign exchange mar- ket, with the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) quot- ing the rate that prevailed in the market during the previous day. In addition to the Bank of Zaire, all commercial banks and financial institutions are per- mitted to participate in the foreign exchange market. At the end of each day, all participating commercial banks and financial institutions are required to de- termine the total value of purchase and sales trans- actions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars with customers and with other commer- cial banks and financial institutions. The banks must also determine the value in new zaires of the trans- actions in each of the three currencies and report to the Bank of Zaire the calculated average effective buying and selling rates of the three currencies as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The Bank of Zaire uses this informa- tion to arrive at the average effective exchange rate of the new zaire against 23 other currencies and units, based on the rates provided by the IMF be- tween the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned.2 These rates are then used as indicative rates at the opening of trading on the day of their publication and are applied to all government operations, in- cluding debt-service payments and the transactions of government-owned enterprises. On December 31, 1994, the rate published by the Bank of Zaire was NZ 3,200 per US$1 and the interbank rate was NZ 3,145.55 per US$1. Charges or commissions are not assessed on in- terbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial in- stitutions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1 percent. The spread between the buy- ing and selling rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5 per- lrThe new zaire was introduced on October 22,1993 at the con- version rate of NZ 1 to 3 million old zaires. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, SDKs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 541 cent. Forward transactions may be conducted in the foreign exchange market. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Fi- nance, manages the medium- and long-term exter- nal and domestic public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, includ- ing terms and guarantees extended by the Govern- ment on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new exter- nal borrowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible cur- rencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in new zaires or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi and Rwanda, and the member countries of the Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC)3 are made through convert- ible accounts established under arrangements con- cluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these con- vertible accounts at the end of settlement periods — each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month 3Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome' and Principe. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 ZAIRE for the CEEAC countries—are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all set- tlements (other than for re-exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de com- pensation de 1'Afrique centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident ac- counts: nonresident foreign currency accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), nonresident convertible accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), nonresident ordinary accounts (comptes etrangers or- dinaires), and nonresident special accounts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts must be maintained as sight deposits and may not show a debit balance. Nonresident foreign currency accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened at any authorized commercial bank without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. The opening of nonresident ordinary ac- counts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplo- matic missions (including those representing inter- national and official multilateral organizations) or for official civil and military cooperation programs. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of for- eign currencies from nonresident convertible ac- counts; (3) proceeds from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against new zaires; (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies against other foreign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of banknotes or trav- eler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers of means of payment in foreign currency at banks or authorized financial institu- tions; (2) transfers from other nonresident convert- ible accounts as well as from resident foreign currency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks ei- ther to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the ex- change regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) purchases in the foreign exchange market of for- eign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other non- resident convertible accounts and purchases of banknotes or any other means of payment in new zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against new zaires re- ceived as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in new zaires from nonresident convertible accounts; and (3) receipts in new zaires from residents for services rendered in Zaire, prop- erty rentals, transportation fares, consular and chan- cery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Non- resident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in new zaires to residents for local pur- chases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and bank- ing commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of banknotes or any other means of payment in new zaires. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not trans- ferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to non- resident convertible accounts. Nonresident special accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) the sale of, or rental income from, real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) the sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, commercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresi- dents. In addition, all assets denominated in new zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents perma- nently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or trans- ferred to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian residents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts un- der this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 543 (2) transfers to religious organizations or any non- profit cultural, philanthropic, or social organiza- tions; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the central Government of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transactions, receipts from exports of goods and services and prefinancing credits in respect of such exports within the limits es- tablished by the Bank of Zaire. These accounts may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire publishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obligation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign ex- change account to another opened in the name of the same holder, with the exception of accounts opened by artisanal diamond and gold marketing agencies. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions re- lating to imports apply to imports financed from these accounts. Anyone permitted to make import payments through this method (using Form I) may do so by debiting these accounts. Authorized banks may pay royalties, merchandise transport costs, ser- vices, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts on the instruction of the account hold- ers, who provide the supporting documents required under the exchange regulations. For account holders with the requisite supporting documentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohib- ited or require special authorization from the Gov- ernment. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In general, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; an importer wishing to extend the valid- ity period must so indicate in the import documents accompanying the declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, ex- tension of the validity period requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Imports of goods intended for expansion of a capital base or for the importer's own use may be effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 for each tariff item and SDR 5,000 for each shipment and that the shipments are fi- nanced from the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Banks may pay freight charges only upon presentation of invoices from the carriers or their agents. The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Authorized banks are allowed to pay trans- portation and insurance costs in foreign exchange only on imports for which they are directly in- volved in the financing on an f.o.b. basis. With a few exceptions, imports are subjected to a preship- ment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zairian Con- trol Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verifi- cation may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the Bank of Zaire. Verification certifi- cates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of SDR 1,000 or less for each tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less for each shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing for- eign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the government; (3) imports requiring a down pay- ment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) imports requiring special authorization from the government and imports of currency, coins, and ar- ticles imitating or bearing the monetary symbols of Zairian currency. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is no longer required for imports by air provided that: (1) such imports are of an emergency nature; (2) goods to be imported are fragile or perishable; or (3) the cost to the final destination in Zaire is less than or equivalent to any other means of transport. The customs tariff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for some equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 Payments for Invisibles ZAIRE All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign ex- change of commissions in favor of shippers or pur- chasing agents. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sala- ries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the nontrans- ferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative ex- penses that firms incur abroad, payment of interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation are autho- rized. Transfers of rental income received by non- residents and residents who are foreign nationals are suspended. Payments for commissions, broker- age charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in new zaires or in foreign currency for trips originat- ing in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange from banks or authorized fi- nancial institutions, including money changers. Residents who are foreign nationals and who are entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain foreign currency from autho- rized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living expenses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs once a month. The exportation of Zairian banknotes and coins by residents and nonresidents is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. However, the exportation of Zairian banknotes and coins by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the lim- its of the agreements concluded between the mem- bers of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must file an exchange document (dec- laration of foreign exchange commitment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, its price, and the cur- rency in which payment is to be received. Declara- tions of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Exports must be carried out and proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period, which must not exceed 45 days from the date of shipment, except for export earnings from artisanal gold and diamonds, which must be repatriated before the declaration of foreign ex- change commitment is validated at a bank. Exporters are authorized to retain the following in their resident foreign currency (RME) accounts at authorized banks: (1) 80 percent of their export- generated revenue from artisanal gold and dia- monds, and 40 percent from all other goods, to the extent that repatriation occurs within the legally re- quired period of 45 days from the date of shipment; and (2) 100 percent of funds received as prefinanc- ing for products intended for exportation. The cor- responding ratios are: 45 percent for G£n£rale des carri&res et des mines du Zaire, 50 percent for So- ci£t£ de d£veloppement industriel et minier du Zaire; and 20 percent for Soci£t£ mini&re de Bak- wanga. The Bank of Zaire may authorize the hold- ing abroad of a portion of earnings from exports. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Economic transactors may export coffee, subject to inspection and quality certificates issued respectively by the OZAC and the Zairian Office for Coffee (OzACAF). As in the case of other export products, coffee may be exported under prefinancing contracts. Artisanal gold and diamonds may be exported only through authorized marketing agencies (comp- toirs agrees). The Bank of Zaire purchases and exports gold on its own account, along with the authorized market- ing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds and gold may be exported directly by the mining companies involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and transferred through authorized banks. A declara- tion must be made for each transaction and checked by the bank. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. An unlimited amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country by resident and nonresi- dent travelers. The importation of Zairian bank- notes and coins is permitted only up to the equiva- lent of $100. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 545 Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is per- mitted only at the time of liquidation, nationali- zation, or partial or total transfers of shares. Borrowed capital and equity contributions are au- thorized. Transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. The Bank of Zaire also guarantees transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and profits in respect of for- eign capital. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive min- ing concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for the account of authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and diamonds by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The share of funds exporters are allowed to retain in their resident foreign currency accounts at authorized banks was changed as follows: artisa- nal gold and diamonds, 80 percent; and all other goods, 40 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. All foreign exchange transactions take place at mar- ket-determined exchange rates. The official exchange rate of the Bank of Zambia is set at the weighted- average buying exchange rate quoted by commercial banks; a 2 percent spread is maintained to arrive at the Bank of Zambia selling rate. Transactions effected at the Bank of Zambia official rate include purchases of the portion of the foreign exchange earnings of the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM), all government transactions (including donor assistance and debt service), and sales of foreign exchange for imports under the OGL system.1 As a transition to a fully integrated foreign ex- change interbank market, the Bank of Zambia also conducts three weekly interbank dealing sessions, during which it receives mostly bids from commer- cial banks for the purchase of foreign exchange. The Bank of Zambia then selects bids that it considers appropriate in terms of exchange rates and amounts involved. The weighted-average selling rate thereby established in this market is usually close to the weighted-average selling rate in the commercial bank market. This transitional foreign exchange market is intended to be replaced by a single interbank market in the near future. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and authorized commercial banks in U.S. dollars, which is also its currency of intervention. However, banks are free to deal in the currencies of neighbor- ing countries, on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in the major international foreign exchange markets. With the lifting of exchange con- trols, all fees and charges applied by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus for processing traveler's checks and other foreign exchange trans- actions are now determined competitively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Banks are al- lowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to maintain an open foreign exchange position of up to $100,000 at the end of each business day. Administration of Control All exchange controls have been abolished, with effect from January 28, 1994. The only exceptions are that (1) the ZCCM must sell all or part of its for- eign exchange earnings to the Bank of Zambia until a more integrated interbank market develops and foreign exchange earnings from nontraditional ex- ports become increasingly significant; and (2) prior approval of the Bank of Zambia must be obtained for servicing of private debt incurred prior to Janu- ary 28,1994. The Ministry of Commerce is responsi- ble for trade control. Arrears are still maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, from residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an external account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts Both residents and nonresidents are free to estab- lish and maintain foreign currency accounts at com- mercial banks in Zambia and abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports in general require a license, which is granted automatically by commercial banks. Im- ports may be effected under the OGL system, which operates on the basis of a negative list.2 Im- ports covered by the OGL system do not require a license. Goods imported under the OGL system and valued at more than $1 million may be pro- cured under simplified international bidding proce- dures. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles *As a result of the recent liberalization of the exchange and trade system, most imports are now mostly financed outside the OGL system. 2The negative list includes gold, silver, platinum, jewelry, weapons and ammunition, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, televi- sions, radios, videocassette recorders and camcorders, and pas- senger automobiles. 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 547 brought into Zambia temporarily may also be im- ported without a license. Payments for imports for which foreign exchange is requested from the Bank of Zambia's OGL win- dow must be made by irrevocable documentary let- ters of credit. For imports of goods valued at up to $50,000, importers must submit one invoice price quotation; for imports valued at between $50,000 and $500,000, importers are required to provide three separate invoice quotations, and, for those valued at more than $500,000, importers must pro- vide evidence that they have attempted to obtain the most competitive price through international competitive bidding. All imports are subject to pre- shipment inspection by international agencies ex- cept when the f.o.b. value of each import consignment is less than $10,000. An increasing proportion of imports is settled with private funds or through the Bank of Zambia's bidding mecha- nism three times a week. Imports are subject to a tariff with a minimum rate of 15 percent and a maximum rate of 50 percent (ex- cept for a few luxury goods). Some imports are ex- empt under the provisions of bilateral agreements, and nontraditional exporters and certain import- competing firms are exempt under the 1991 Invest- ment Act. In addition, imported goods are subject to an "uplift factor" in computing domestic sales tax. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except external debt- service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Zambia. Remittances of prof- its and dividends may be made without restriction after payment of all taxes. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may remit any amount, including "inducement al- lowances" and gratuities, without restriction. Pay- ments to expatriates employed by the ZCCM and other exporters may be made from exporters' own foreign exchange holdings, or they may acquire for- eign exchange from the free market to effect such payments. Travelers may take out any amount in any cur- rency without prior permission, although they are required to make a declaration if the amounts in- volved exceed the equivalent of $5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Al- though export licenses are required for most goods, they are administered routinely by commercial banks under the authority delegated by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. Exports of white maize and fertilizers may be subject to quantitative restrictions when domestic supplies are short; ex- ports of ivory are prohibited. Forty percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the ZCCM must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia. Exporters of nontraditional products are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings without restriction. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange or domestic currency notes a traveler may bring in, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared to customs. Capital All borrowings outside Zambia must be regis- tered with the Bank of Zambia for statistical pur- poses. Outward transfers of capital are free of controls. Disinvestment and repatriation of capital are also unrestricted, subject to verification that no tax obligations are due. No restrictions apply to the sale of assets between foreigners and between Zam- bians and foreigners. Local borrowing by com- panies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is now unrestricted. Nonresidents may participate in the treasury bill and government bond markets without restriction and are free to re- mit proceeds from the sales of these instruments af- ter payment of applicable taxes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic and any other purpose. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 5. The requirement that foreign exchange bureaus endorse passports in respect of the foreign currency sold to Zambian residents traveling abroad for the purchase of goods for import into Zambia, up to $4,000 ($2,000 for travel and $2,000 for imports of goods) was reinstituted. Administration of Control January 29. The Minister of Finance issued a direc- tive suspending the Exchange Control Act with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 ZAMBIA effect from January 28, 1994. The Exchange Control Act can be reinstated only by an act of Parliament. Payments for Invisibles January 29. The $2,000 monthly limit on remit- tances of inducement income by expatriate employ- ees on existing contracts was withdrawn, but permission by the employer to transfer the induce- ment income abroad must include a letter confirm- ing that appropriate provision has been made for the payment of applicable taxes. January 29. The limits on emigration allowances for expatriates and prior authorization by the Bank of Zambia were eliminated; responsibility for checking documentation was delegated to commercial banks. January 29. All restrictions on insurance, life as- surance, and re-insurance transactions and related payments were abolished; remittances would be al- lowed against supporting vouchers or documenta- tion without reference to the Bank of Zambia. January 29. Airlines and their agents were permit- ted to transfer abroad payments for airline tickets paid in kwacha through commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Zambia, subject to appro- priate documentation requirements. January 29. Remittances of charter hire of foreign aircraft and vessels were permitted without refer- ence to the Bank of Zambia. Earnings of visiting art- ists, entertainers, and golf players were permitted to be remitted without reference to the Bank of Zambia. January 29. Clearing and forward charges payable by residents of Zambia to nonresident beneficiaries on imports into or exports from Zambia may be re- mitted by commercial banks upon presentation of supporting vouchers or bills. January 29. The Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) was allowed to make all types of payments without restriction. Zambia Airways was permitted to purchase foreign exchange for settle- ment of its external obligations without restriction. March 9. Remittances of dividends by commercial banks were permitted freely, subject to supporting documentation (including the audited profit and loss accounts and balance sheet for the relevant year and tax payments). May 5. Individuals taking out foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 were required to declare the amount to customs. Capital April 5. All previously blocked kwacha accounts were unblocked. April 5. At the request of subsidiaries or associ- ates in Zambia of companies of nonresident corpo- rations, commercial banks were allowed, without reference to the Bank of Zambia, to transfer recur- ring contributions to pension funds administered outside Zambia. April 5. Selected controls on foreign direct invest- ment were abolished, and investment approved un- der the Investment Act, including the issuance of shares to nonresident investors, would be unre- stricted. Nonresidents were allowed to participate in the treasury bill and government bond markets without restriction, and the proceeds from redemp- tion would be permitted without reference to the Bank of Zambia after payment of applicable taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of February 28,1995) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The external value of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for all curren- cies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 31, 1994, the exchange rate quoted by the RBZ was Z$8.3472 per US$1. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the size of such contracts, but their period must be at least one year, depending on the currencies involved and the type of coverage. The RBZ does not offer for- ward foreign exchange contracts. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for six months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates. Authorized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure limits, but no other restrictions from the RBZ apply to inter- bank trading. Zimbabwe formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 5,1995. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in keeping with the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (Ju ly l, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars (issued periodically). Import and export controls may be administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979; the Control of Goods (open general import li- cense) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (open general export license) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the ex- ception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1,1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), resi- dents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a trans- action period of two calendar months; the mone- tary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Residents and nonresident individuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-deter- mined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, Seventeen denominated currencies are freely convertible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 ZIMBABWE may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange, un- listed companies, or money markets. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements. The negative list for imports includes, besides items re- stricted for health or security reasons, textiles and apparel, alcoholic beverages, canned beverages, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semipre- cious stones, and some jewelry items. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Market- ing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is sub- mitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maximum of 35 percent of the c.i.f. value for most consumer goods (up to 60-75 percent for vehicles) with a sur- tax of 10 percent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an addi- tional tax (between 12.5 percent and 20 percent) equivalent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Government im- ports and capital goods for statutory bodies are ex- empt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other pur- poses is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the RBZ, which deals with each case on its merits. All dividends declared by foreign investors in the export sector after January 1,1995 may be remitted to foreign shareholders without restriction after payment of applicable taxes. If direct foreign ex- change allocation was used, the following rules ap- ply: ( l )a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange, "switched blocked funds," or surplus funds is permitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a maximum of 50 percent for five years from the be- ginning of operations, after which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by for- eigners as a result of the limited remittance of divi- dends; switched blocked funds are blocked funds purchased by a foreigner from the original owner); (2) a wholly foreign-owned company with its own blocked funds is permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared dividends, provided it meets all its foreign exchange requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new joint venture that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and has at least 30 percent local participation, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100 percent of its share of declared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from ex- ternal sources. Outward remittances in respect of services are subject to a 20 percent tax; in cases that fall under double taxation agreements, the tax rate is 10 percent. Foreign companies established prior to September 1979 are permitted to remit 50 percent of net after-tax profits if exports comprise more than 25 percent of total sales. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: ( l )a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after-tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an ex- port-oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through a combina- tion of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds (subject to a minimum matching formula of 50-50) is allowed to remit dividends of up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the minimum 30 percent local participation crite- rion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. After five years, the company can remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$5,000 a year. Children under 10 years are entitled to one-half this amount. The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related business travel is Z$600 a day, up to a maximum of Z$6,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$l 2,000; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 551 for export-related business travel, the exchange al- lowance is Z$700 a day, up to a maximum of Z$8,000 a trip and Z$16,000 a year. Applications for holiday and business travel allowances exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the RBZ and are granted in bona fide cases. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for cer- tain diploma and degree courses. All applications for educational allowances must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. For medical treatment, foreign ex- change is provided up to Z$200 a day each for the patient and any necessary accompanying compan- ion for a maximum of 30 days. Applications for ad- ditional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Remittances of up to Z$500 for subscrip- tions to learned or technical societies and Z$100 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$250. Remittances to close rela- tives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$100 a month for each individual benefi- ciary and Z$200 a month for each family unit, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the RBZ. Beginning March 27, 1984, the set- tling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the exchange control authori- ties will consider applications exceeding this maxi- mum. Since April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to in- vest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allow- ance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Zimbabwean government external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the RBZ. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single per- sons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons (under 60 years of age) with de- pendents, Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A further release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of their travel allowance, not more than Z$250 in Zimbabwean currency, together with a maxi- mum of the equivalent of Z$250 in foreign bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may recon- vert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must have licenses to export the fol- lowing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac- tured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) cer- tain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. Export-licensing require- ments are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, including maize, oilseeds, cheese, skimmed milk, seeds, potatoes, citrus fruits, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that pay- ment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of ship- ment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident ac- count; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries may use national currencies in the settlement of payments during a transaction pe- riod of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible currencies. Exports to some fifty countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if pay- ment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit is- sued or confirmed before exportation by a reputable overseas bank. The retention rate was raised to 50 percent from 5 percent on April 1 and to 100 percent from 60 percent on July 2,1995. An export subsidy in the form of tax exemption at the rate of 9 percent of the f.o.b. value is granted on specified exports of manufactured products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing services abroad may also re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 ZIMBABWE tain a portion of their earnings. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without re- striction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimba- bwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maxi- mum of Z$250. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. The limit on foreign borrowing without prior approval of the External Loans Coordinating Committee is up to US$5 million. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. How- ever, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation up to the value of capi- tal invested less dividends transferred abroad. The balance may be transferred only through the estab- lished medium of six-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. Repatriation may be permitted without restriction if funds are used to acquire foreign exchange and if dividends were not remitted with such funds. The repatriation of capital invested before September 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, share- holders are allowed, within limits, to apply to the RBZ for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external gov- ernment bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years (for individuals) or 20 years (for firms). Repatria- tion at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sales prices of net equity is allowed. Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in gov- ernment external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of a former resident's Zimbabwean pension is guar- anteed under the constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the RBZ, as are dealings in external securities. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zimba- bwe in an approved project and matched by an in- flow of investment funds of up to 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as determined by the RBZ. Blocked funds can be used by third parties, foreign as well as domestic, for investment on freely negotiated terms; as new venture capital, the total investment is eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, un- like new venture capital, must be reinvested in Zimbabwe for at least five years. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects have been per- mitted access to offehore financing in the form of gold loans. Foreign investors are permitted to par- ticipate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Market using currency received in Zimbabwe through nor- mal banking channels. Purchase of shares by for- eign investors is limited to 25 percent of the total equity of the company, with a limit of 5 percent for one investor. These limits are in addition to any ex- isting foreign shareholdings in the companies. The initial investment plus any capital gains and divi- dend income may be remitted without restriction. Foreign investors may also invest up to a maximum of 15 percent of the assets brought to Zimbabwe in primary issues of bonds and stocks. Locally owned companies (greater than 75 per- cent equity owned by residents) may buy blocked funds from the original owners for investment pur- poses by using funds from the export retention scheme, provided that they export at least 75 per- cent of their output. Direct foreign investments up to US$40 million in the preferred areas (mining, agro-industry, manu- facturing, tourism, and high-technology services) are approved by the Zimbabwe Investment Centre (ZIC). In the preferred areas, 100 percent foreign ownership is permitted; it is restricted to 25 percent in other areas. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal or certain other specified metals and minerals without an export license; no such licenses for gold are is- sued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intend- ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or princi- pal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 553 lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permis- sion can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd., is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or distributor of a registered mining lo- cation is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the follow- ing month. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a li- cense issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The official exchange rate was deval- ued by 17 percent, and a dual exchange rate regime was introduced comprising a market-determined rate for the private sector and an official exchange rate for government transactions. Access to official foreign exchange was restricted to imports of petro- leum, government imports of goods and services, imports from PTA countries, outstanding entitle- ments under the export retention scheme, existing forward exchange contracts, and legal commit- ments to provide foreign exchange at the official rate for some private sector debt service. The RBZ stopped offering forward foreign exchange con- tracts. Commercial banks started applying market rates for forward exchange contracts. July 2. Exchange rates were unified at the level of the market-determined exchange rate. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Import-licensing requirements were re- moved. The import surtax was reduced to 15 per- cent from 20 percent. August 1. The import surtax was reduced to 10 percent from 15 percent. Capital goods were ex- empted from the customs duties. Customs duties on textiles were reduced to 5 percent from 10 percent, and on clothing to 15 percent from 20-35 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel was increased to Z$5,000 from Z$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The export retention rate was increased to 60 percent from 50 percent. July 2. The export retention rate was increased to 100 percent. Capital January 1. The limit on foreign borrowing without prior approval of the External Loans Coordinating Committee was raised to US$5 million. December 1. All dividends declared by foreign in- vestors in the export sector after January 1, 1995 would be allowed to be remitted abroad after pay- ment of applicable taxes. Changes During 1995 Exchange Arrangement February 5. Zimbabwe formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Ar- ticles of Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Foreign currency accounts for the re- tention of export proceeds were introduced for corporations. July 2. The 90-day limit on holding foreign ex- change in foreign currency accounts was removed. Capital February 1. A timetable for the liquidation, over a three-year period starting July 1, 1995, of blocked funds relating to profits and dividends earned on foreign investments made prior to May 1993 was established. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Union: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EU-Wide Basis During 19941 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 12. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of hematite pig iron originating in Brazil, Poland, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Commission Decision No. 67/94). February 1. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ethanolamine originating in the United States (Council Regulation No. 229/94). February 17. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of large aluminum electrolytic capacitors originating in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan Province of China (Commission Regulation No. 371/94). Febrmry 21. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of gas-fueled, non-refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand (Council Regulation No. 398/94). March 9. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5-inch microdisks) originating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea (Commission Regulation No. 534/94). March 17. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferro-silicon originating in the People's Republic of China and South Africa (Council Regulation No. 621/94). March 29. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on isobutanol originating in the Russian Federation (Council Regulation No. 721/94). April 12. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of silicon carbide originating in the People's Republic of China, Poland, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Council Regulation No. 821/94). April 19. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain ball bearings originat- ing in Japan (Council Regulation No. 872/94). April 21. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the Russian Fed- eration (Commission Regulation No. 892/94). June 13. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of large aluminum electrolytic capacitors originating in the Republic of Korea and Source: Official Journals of the European Communities. Taiwan Province of China (Council Regulation No. 1384/94). June 20. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of artificial corundum originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1418/94). July 15. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of hematite pig iron originating in Brazil, Poland, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Com- mission Decision No. 1751/94). July 18. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of furfuraldehyde originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Deci- sion No. 1783/94). July 22. Definitive quantitative limit on imports of certain textile products (Category 28) originating in Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 1802/94). July 25. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of cotton yarn originating in Brazil and Turkey (Council Regulation No. 1828/94). September 9. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5-inch microdisks) originating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 2199/ 94). September 14. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferro-silicon originating in Brazil (Council Regulation No. 2238/94). September 21. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of tungsten ores and concen- trates, tungstic oxide, tungstic acid, tungsten carbide, and fused tungsten carbide originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 2286/94). September 27. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of color television receivers originating in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thai- land (Commission Regulation No. 2376/94). October 19. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of artificial corundum originat- ing in the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Council Regulation No. 2556/94). October 19. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the Russian Fed- eration (Council Regulation No. 2557/94). November 17. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of potassium permanganate 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 555 originating in the People's Republic of China (Coun- cil Regulation No. 2819/94). December 12. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of urea ammonium nitrate solu- tion originating in Bulgaria and Poland (Commis- sion Decision No. 825/94). December 19. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferro-silico-manganese origi- nating in Brazil, the Russian Federation, South Africa, and Ukraine (Commission Regulation No. 3119/94). December 22. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of urea ammonium nitrate solu- tion originating in Bulgaria and Poland (Council Regulation No. 3319/94). 2. Extension January 24. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of isobutanol originating in the Russian Federation was extended (Council Regulation No. 162/94). February 7. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of television camera systems originating in Japan was extended (Council Regulation No. 301/94). April 29. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of hematite pig iron originating in Brazil, Poland, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine was extended (Commission Decision No. 1022/94). June 8. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5-inch microdisks) origi- nating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea was extended (Council Regulation No. 1340/94). July 18. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation was extended (Council Regulation No. 1777/94). September 9. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of calcium metal originating in the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation was extended (Council Regulation No. 2198/94). October 24. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of urea ammonium nitrate solution originat- ing in Bulgaria and Poland was extended (Council Regulation No. 2620/94). November 17. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of furfuraldehyde originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China was extended (Council Reg- ulation No. 2818/94). 3. Elimination December 8. Antidumping duty on imports of cer- tain polyester yarns originating in India was elimi- nated (Council Regulation No. 3009/94). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh Clementines originating in Morocco (Com- mission Regulation No. 32/94). February 24. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on artichokes originating in Egypt (Commis- sion Regulation No. 404/94). March 2. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 475/94). March 8. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 514/94). March 10. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Turkey (Commission Regu- lation No. 543/94). March 14. Countervailing charge was introduced on artichokes originating in Egypt (Commission Regulation No. 559/94). April 6. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 769/94). April 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commission Regu- lation No. 815/94). April 13. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 831/94). May 16. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1119/94). May 24. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1175/94). August 1. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 1985/94). August 10. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plums originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2036/94). August 10. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2037/94). August 22. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plums originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2084/94). September 5. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2173/94). September 5. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2174/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 APPENDIX September 6. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2180/94). September 8. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2196/94). September 19. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2259/94). September 19. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2260/94). September 19. Definitive countervailing charge was imposed on imports of ball bearings with a maximum external diameter not exceeding 30 mm. originating in Thailand (Council Regulation No. 2271/94). September 20. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2269/94). September 21. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plums originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2275/94). October 27. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2617/94). November 8. Countervailing charge introduced on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was amended (Commission Regulation No. 2721/94). November 15. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2775/94). November 28. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Com- mission Regulation No. 2886/94). 2. Elimination January 14. Countervailing charge on fresh Clemen- tines originating in Morocco was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 72/94). March 15. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 571/94). April 21. Countervailing charge on tomatoes origi- nating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 887/94). April 25. Countervailing charge on tomatoes origi- nating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regu- lation No. 910/94). June 1. Countervailing charge on tomatoes origi- nating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1271/94). June 15. Countervailing charge on tomatoes origi- nating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regu- lation No. 1364/94). November 24. Countervailing charge on fresh lem- ons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2850/94). December 2. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2948/94). Quantitative Restrictions Introduction March 2. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 469/94). March 30. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 747/94). April 12. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products origi- nating in Indonesia (Commission Regulation No. 811/94). May 18. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products origi- nating in Pakistan (Commission Regulation No. 1134/94). May 18. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1135/94). May 18. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 1136/94). June 2. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of fresh sour cherries originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (Com- mission Regulation No. 1281/94). July 5. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of certain textile products origi- nating in Indonesia (Commission Regulation No. 1629/94). July 18. Provisional quantitative limit was estab- lished on imports of textile products originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regula- tion No. 1756/94). . November 14. Provisional quantitative limit was established on imports of certain textile products originating in the People's Republic of China (Coun- cil Regulation No. 2797/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 557 Customs Duties Reintroduction March 15. Customs duties on certain textile prod- ucts originating in Indonesia, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 581/94). March 15. Customs duties on certain industrial products originating in the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 582/94). April 21. Customs duties on certain industrial products originating in Brazil, the People's Republic of China, India, Indonesia, Lithuania, Mexico, and Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 893/94). April 21. Customs duties on certain textile prod- ucts originating in the People's Republic of China, India, and Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 894/94). May 18. Customs duties applicable to certain prod- ucts falling within CN Code 4820 50 00 originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1143/94). May 18. Customs duties on certain industrial prod- ucts originating in the People's Republic of China and Estonia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1144/94). May 27. Customs duties applicable to products falling within CN Code 2817 00 00 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 1221/94). June 9. Customs duties on certain industrial prod- ucts originating in Argentina, India, Malaysia, Paki- stan, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1341/94). June 23. Customs duties applicable to products falling within CN Code 2929 90 00 originating in Bra- zil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 1458/94). June 30. Customs duties applicable to certain tex- tile products originating in Brazil, the People's Republic of China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1604/94). July 26. Customs duties applicable to products of the combined nomenclature Codes 3102 40 10 and 3102 40 90, originating in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1830/94). August 19. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, and Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2086/94). September 7. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2192/94). September 13. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in India, and Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2226/94). September 13. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in Belarus, the People's Republic of China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2227/94). September 29. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in the People's Republic of China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2378 / 94). September 30. Customs duties applicable to prod- ucts falling within CN Code 3102 80 00 originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2380/94). October 6. Customs duties applicable to certain tex- tile products originating in India, Indonesia, and Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2436/94). October 20. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, Singapore, and Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2558/94). October 20. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in Indonesia and Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 APPENDIX ments applied, were reintroduced (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2559/94). October 20. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were rein- troduced (Commission Regulation No. 2560/94). October 31. Customs duties applicable to products falling within CN Code 3102 40, originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2657/94). November 8. Customs duties applicable to products falling within CN Code 8509 originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2731/94). November 8. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in Malaysia, Sin- gapore, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2732/94). November 14. Customs duties applicable to prod- ucts falling within CN Code 8544 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2774/94). November 14. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in Indonesia, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Indonesia, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2T73/ 94). November 21. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in India, Indonesia, Paki- stan, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2821/94). November 21. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in Brazil and Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2822/94). November 21. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in India and Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2823/ 94). November 23. Customs duties applicable to prod- ucts falling within CN Code 4820 50 00 originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2846/94). November 23. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in India, Indonesia, Paki- stan, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were rein- troduced (Commission Regulation No. 2847/94). November 25. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in Indonesia, the Philip- pines, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2895/94). December 1. Customs duties applicable to certain industrial products originating in the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2936/94). December 1. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in India, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 2937/94). December 13. Customs duties applicable to products of CN Codes ex 7304, ex 7305, and ex 7306 originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 3028/94). December 19. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Lithuania, Malaysia, and Mexico, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 3120/ 94). December 19. Customs duties applicable to certain textile products originating in the People's Republic of China, India, Iran, and Pakistan, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements applied, were reintro- duced (Commission Regulation No. 3121/94). December 21. Customs duties applicable to prod- ucts falling within CN Code 3102 30, originating in Poland, to which the preferential tariff arrangements applied, were reintroduced (Commission Regulation No. 3150/94). Preferential Customs Duties 1. Re-establishment January 6. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 19/94). March 21. Preferential customs duty on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 632/94). April 22. Preferential customs duty on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel was reestablished (Commission Regulation No. 902/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 559 May 6. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1068/94). May 30. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1233/ 94). June 2. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1284/94). September 9. Preferential customs duty on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2208/94). October 21. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2571/94). 2. Suspension January 6. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was sus- pended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 6/94). February 21. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was sus- pended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 383/94). March 14. Preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 563/94). April 12. Preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 814/94). May 16. Preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1120/94). May 16. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was sus- pended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1121/94). June 20. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was sus- pended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1410/ 94). June 23. Preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1451/94). June 24. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1464/94). September 30. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2390/94). November 8. Preferential customs duty on imports of uniflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2717/94). November 8. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2718/94). November 8. Preferential customs duty on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2719/94). November 8. Preferential customs du ty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was suspended and common customs tariff duty was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2720/94). Community Tariff Quotas Introduction January 24. Community tariff quota for high-quality fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of bovine animals falling within CN Codes 0201 and 0202 and for products falling within CN 020610 95 and 0206 26 91 was established (Council Regulation No. 129/94). January 24. Community tariff quota for frozen meat of bovine animals falling within CN Codes 0202 and products falling within CN 0206 29 91 was established (Council Regulation No. 130/94). January 24. Community tariff quota for frozen buf- falo meat falling within CN Code 0202 30 90 was established (Council Regulation No. 131/94). January 24. Community tariff quota for frozen thin skirt of bovine animals falling within CN Code 0206 29 91 was established (Council Regulation No. 132/94). January 24. Community tariff quota for table cher- ries originating in Switzerland was established (Council Regulation No. 218/94). January 24. Community tariff quota for certain fish and fishery products originating in the Faroe Islands was established (Council Regulation No. 261/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 APPENDIX January 24. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and industrial products originating in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slo- vak Republic was established (Council Regulation No. 262/94). February 7. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural products originating in Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia was established (Council Reg- ulation No. 297/94). February 7. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus was established (Council Regulation No. 298/94). February 7. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural products originating in Israel was estab- lished (Council Regulation No. 300/94). February 7. Community tariff quota for certain agri- cultural products originating in Bulgaria, and Roma- nia was established (Council Regulation No. 314/94). February 7. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and industrial products originating in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slo- vak Republic was established (Council Regulation No. 342/94). February 14. Community tariff quota for certain petroleum products refined in Turkey was estab- lished (Council Regulation No. 354/94). February 14. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and fishery products originating in Aus- tria, Norway, and Sweden was established (Council Regulation No. 369/94). March 21. Community tariff quota for certain prod- ucts originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Slo- venia was established (Council Regulation No. 652/ 94). March 21. Community tariff quota for products originating in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Repub- lic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, the Kyr- gyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan was established (Council Regulation No. 665/94). March 21. Community tariff quota for certain prod- ucts originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Slov- enia was established (Council Regulation No. 653/94). March 28. Community tariff quota for certain tex- tile products originating in certain third countries that participated in 1994 trade fairs organized in the European Community was established (Council Regulation No. 689/94). March 29. Community tariff quota for certain high-quality beef, pork, poultry, wheat, meslin, bran, sharps, and other residues was established (Council Regulation No. 774/94). June 13. Community tariff quota for frozen hake fillets and for the processing required by certain tex- tile products under Community outward processing arrangements was established (Council Regulation No. 1385/94). June 22. Community tariff quota for poultry and certain other agricultural products was established (Council Regulation No. 1431/94). June 22. Community tariff quota for pork and cer- tain other agricultural products was established (Council Regulation No. 1432/94). July 18. Community tariff quota for certain agricul- tural products originating in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the Slo- vak Republic was established (Council Regulation No. 1798/94). July 18. Community tariff quota for certain alpine and mountain breeds of bulls, cows, and heifers, other than those intended for slaughter, was estab- lished (Council Regulation No. 1800/94). July 18. Community tariff quota for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the overseas countries and terri- tories (OCT) associated with the European Union was established (Council Regulation No. 1827/94). July 25. Community tariff quota for certain prod- ucts originating in Algeria, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel (and the occupied territories), Jordan, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey was established (Council Regulation No. 1981/94). July 27. Community tariff quota determined in the GATT for certain agricultural and industrial products was established (Council Regulation No. 1988/94). July 27. Community tariff quota for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) countries was established (Council Regulation No. 1989/94). October 24. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and industrial products originating in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slo- vak Republic was established (Council Regulation No. 2622/94). November 14. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural products originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries was established (Council Regulation No. 2763/94). November 23. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and industrial products (first series 1995) was established (Council Regulation No. 2878/94). November 25. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural and industrial products (first series 1994) was established (Council Regulation No. 2893/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 561 December 21. Community tariff quota for certain agricultural products originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries was established (Council Regulation No. 3144/94). December 22. Community tariff quota for certain products originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia was established (Council Regulation No. 3356/ 94). Import Surveillance Introduction January 28. Community surveillance was intro- duced on imports of iron and steel products, covered by the ECSC Treaty, that originate in third countries (Council Regulation No. 176/94). September 13. Temporary arrangement for retro- spective Community surveillance in respect of Atlantic salmon imports was introduced (Council Regulation No. 2218/94). September 16. Retrospective Community surveil- lance on imports of certain steel cables originating in nonmember countries was introduced (Council Reg- ulation No. 2248/94). December 22. Community surveillance on imports originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was introduced (Council Regulation No. 3357/94). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 568. 562 A f n a h g i s t n a , s I l a m i c S t a t o e f A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A a o g n l A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a B a h a m s a , T e h B h a r a i n B s e d a g n a l h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B u g e l i m d n a L e x u m u o b r g B e i l e z B n n e i B u h t n a B o i l a v i B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B a g u l i r a B u r a n k i F s a o A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: fl) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (iii) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions^ 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions^'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 563 B u r d n u i C a m a d o b i C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R b u p e i l c C d a h C h l i e C a n h i C o o l m a b i C o m o o r s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C e 6 t d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i a c n i D o m i n a c n i R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S o d a v a l r E a u q t o i r a l G a e n u i E r t i r a e E s t a n o i E t p o h i i a F i j i d n a n F i l F r e c n a G n o b a G a m a b i , T e h G o e r a g i G e r m y n a G a n a h 1 11 11 1 11 1 1 11 1111 1111 11 1 1111 11111 1 11 1 11 1 11 1 1 11 11 11 1 111 1 1 1 11111111 11111111 111111111111 111111 111111111 1111 111 1111 1 1111 111 1111111 1 11 1 111 11111 1 1 11 11111111 111111111 11111111111 1111 11111 1 111111111 11111111111 1111 11111 1 111111111 11111111111 1111 11111 1 1111111 1 111111 1111 1111 11111 1 111 11111111 1 1111111 111 1 11 11 1 111111 1111111111 1 11 1 1111111 11 1111111 1111111111111 111111 11111111 11111111111111111 1111 111111 1111 111 1 111 1111111111 11111 111111 1111111 1111111111111111111111 111 1111111111 11 11 111 1 11111111 111 11 11111 1111 1111111111111111111111111111 1111111111 111111111111111111 11111111 1111111111 1 1 1 11 11111 1 1 111 1 11 111 111 1111 1 1 11 11 11 1 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 568. 564 G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G a e n u i G a e n u i - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y I d n a e c l I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , a s I l m i c R p e . o f r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K h k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar 07) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (HI) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require ment for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 565 K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P e p o l e ' s m D e . R p e . L v a t i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a M a n o d e c a i , f o r m e r Y o g u s l v a R b u p e i l o c f M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M y a a l s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M o c x e i M i c r a s e n o i , F d e . S t a t s e o f M a v o d o l M o g n o i l a M o c c o o r M a z o m e u q b i M n a y m a r N a m i b i a N a p e l N e h e t l r d n a s N e h e t l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a 11 11 1 1 11 1 1 1111 11 1 1 111111111111111111111111 111 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 568. 566 N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w a e n u i P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i s e n p p i d n a o P l o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r s e n d a n e i S n a M a i r o n o 3 S T d n a * * n o P i r e p c n i S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e k a v o S l R b u p e i l c A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (HI) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (11) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators 07) other managed floating (HI) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require ment for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 567 a n e v o S l i o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c n a p S i S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r d a d n i d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a V i e t N a m W s e t e r S n a m a o m Y e n e , R b u p e i l o c f Z a r i e Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e 11 0 11 11 1 111 1 11 111 0 111111 1111111 11111111i111 1 111 1111 11 1 111 1 11 11111 11111111 1 11 111 1 0 11 11 111 1 1 111 111 1 1111 1 1111 1 1 11 1111111111111 1111111111 111111111 111111 111111 1111 1111111 1111 11 11 111 11 111 1111 111111 1 111111 11 1 11 111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11 111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11 111 1111 1 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11 111 1111 111111 1 111111111 1 1 11 1111 1 11 111 1111 1 1 11111 1 1111 111111111111 111 11111 111 111111 11 111 111111111 111111111 1111111111111111 11 111111111111111111111111 11 1111111111111 1 11111111111 1 111111 1111111 11 11 111 11 111111 111 11111111 111 1111111111111 111 11 1111111111111 111 1111111 1111111111111 111 11 111111111111111111111111 1111111111111 111 11 111111111 1 11111111 1 11111111 11 1 111 •1 111 1111 1 1111 1 1111 11 1 1 1 11 11 11 11 1 11 11 1 1 1111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. - indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. 0 indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1The listing includes the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exchange practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. ^Usually December 31,1994. 3 It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not necessar- ily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Exchange arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, South African rand, or Russian ruble. 5 Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions evidenced by external payments arrears and restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14,1952. 6 Resident-owned funds. 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters Definitions of Acronyms ACU Asian Clearing Union AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of South East Asian Nations BCEAO Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de I1 Afrique de 1'Ouest) BEAC Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) BLEU Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union CACM Central American Common Market CAP Common agricultural policy (of the EU) CARICOM Caribbean Common Market CEEAC Economic Community of Central African States CEFTA Central European free trade area CEPGL Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries CEPT Common effective preferential tariff of the ASEAN free trade area GET Common external tariff (of CARICOM) CFA Communaut£ financi£re africaine CIS Commonwealth of Independent States CMA Common monetary area CMEA Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved) COCOM Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls ECCB Eastern Caribbean Central Bank ECLAC Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Definitions of Acronyms UDEAC Central African Customs and Economic Union WAEC West African Economic Community (CEAO) (dissolved) WAEMU West African Economic and Monetary Union WAMU West African Monetary Union WTO World Trade Organization (supercedes GATT) 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 