 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1983 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International Standard Serial Number: ISSN 0250-7366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1983 W a s h i n g t o n, D .C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund J u ne 3, 1983 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ransm it to you a copy of the In te rna t ional Monetary F u n d 's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1983, wh i ch has been prepared in accordance w i th the provisions of Ar t ic le X IV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreemen t. On behalf of the Execu t ive Board, I should like to express our apprec ia t ion of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Repor t. S incere ly you rs, /s/ J. DE LARO S I ERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O N T E N TS P A RT O NE Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction G lobal Environment Commerc ial and Exchange Po l icy Developments Fund Treatment of Restrictions II. M a in Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements Developments in Major Currencies Subject to Flexible Arrangements Developments Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements Other Developments in Exchange Arrangements III. M a in Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures Affecting Import Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Payments Arrears Mu l t ip le Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements Capital F lows G o ld IV. M a in Developments in Regional Arrangements Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two Afghanistan A lge r ia An t igua and Barbuda Argentina Australia Aus tr ia Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Be lg ium and Luxembourg Be l ize Benin Bhutan B o l i v ia Botswana B r a z il P A RT Two Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central A f r ican Republic Chad Ch i le Ch in a, People's Republic of Co lomb ia Comoros Congo, People's Republic of the Costa R i ca Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dom in ica Dom in ican Republic Ecuador 56 57 59 63 65 74 79 83 86 87 93 96 101 103 106 107 110 111 . v ii Page 3 3 5 6 7 9 11 13 21 21 22 26 28 29 30 31 34 37 40 44 46 50 50 119 121 124 127 129 130 133 136 139 144 151 153 156 159 162 167 168 170 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C O N T E N TS Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Gu inea E th iop ia F i ji F in land France Gabon Gamb ia, The Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Ha i ti Honduras Hong K o ng Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Kenya Ko rea Kuwa it Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho L ibe r ia L ibyan A rab Jamahiriya Madagascar M a l awi Ma lays ia Ma ld ives M a li Ma l ta . .. 179 183 188 190 192 194 197 204 207 209 212 215 220 222 224 227 229 232 234 236 237 243 246 256 260 262 265 268 271 276 279 282 285 288 291 294 296 297 299 300 301 304 307 309 311 312 314 *The Fund has not received from the authorities of Demo­ cratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1982. v i ii Page Page Mauritania Mauritius M e x i co Mo rocco Nepal Netherlands Netherland An t i l les New Zealand Nicaragua N iger N ige r ia Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. L u c ia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi A rab ia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South A f r i ca Spain S ri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian A rab Repub l ic Tanzania Thailand Togo Tr in idad and Tobago Tun is ia Turkey Uganda United A rab Emirates United K ingdom United States 316 318 321 328 333 336 340 341 345 348 351 356 359 360 368 369 371 374 379 385 389 390 393 395 397 399 401 402 405 406 409 411 413 416 421 427 432 435 438 439 444 446 449 451 456 459 463 467 474 477 479 482 . ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Page Upper V o l ta 487 Uruguay 490 Vanuatu 493 Venezuela 495 V iet N am 498 Western Samoa 500 Yemen A rab Republic 502 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 503 Yugos lav ia Zaire Zamb ia Zimbabwe C O N T E N TS Page 506 511 515 519 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries L i st of Abbreviations 524 530 ix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART ONE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction The period covered by this Report is 1982 and, for major developments, the first quarter of 1983. The Report draws on information available to the Fund from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of consultation visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close collaboration with national authorities. The Fund's Articles of Agreement provide for notification by member countries to the Fund of a comprehensive description of their exchange controls and exchange rate arrangements, and changes in these as they occur. Measures intensifying members' trade restrictions are subject to similar reporting provisions when a member has been granted an arrangement for the use of the Fund's resources. The Report centers on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it is also more comprehensive in that it presents other external economic policy measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have balance of payments implications. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised; the description in the Report of a restrictive practice by a member does not imply that it is or is not being maintained consistently with the Fund's Articles, or that, if subject to Article VIII, it has or has not been approved by the Fund. Global Environment Developments in exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions took place against a back- ground of declining world ou tput and trade in the period under review. After stagnating in the preced- ing year, the volume of world trade declined by 2.5 percent in 1982 (Chart 1). This was the first dec l ine in world trade since 1975; the fa ll in global economic activity, by 0.3 percent, was the first in over two decades. W i th in this broad context, developments in the major country groups were diverse. Imports declined slightly and retained their share of domestic markets in the indus tr ial coun- tries, following sharp declines in market shares in 1980 and 1981; imports of the non-oil developing countries contracted in response to the f inanc ing difficulties of a number of these countries, while output rose. Despite the contraction of imports, the aggregate current account deficit of the non-oil developing countries declined only slightly to US$87 billion, compared with the peak deficit of US$108 billion in 1981, reflecting continued weak export markets, adverse terms of trade devel- opments, and substantial increases in debt-servicing payments. Sharp declines of oil revenues were also reflected, in some oil exporting countries and in the group as a whole, in a slowing of import growth that had previously been a major source of world trade growth. A number of developing countries adopted or intensified restrictive exchange and trade measures. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS Chart 1. Growth of World Trade and Output, 1963-82' 'Trade (exports p l us impo r ts) and ou tput (gross na t ional p rodu c t) are in vo lume terms. Changes for 1963-72 are a n n u al compound percentage rates. Prior to 1977, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina is exc luded. Unemp loyment in indus t r ial countries con t inued to rise, reaching almost 9 percent by the end of 1982, and added fur ther pressure for protectionist measures to counter import penetration in major sectors that had been undergoing s truc tural adjust- ments. In 1982, the pressures for protectionism in the manu fac tu r ing indus try were increas ing ly ex- pressed w i th in an expanding framework of bilateral and mu l t icoun try agreements to l im it imports of automobiles, steel, tex t i les, and other products. The existing h igh ly restrictive structure of agricul- tural protectionism remained largely unchanged, although the level of subsidization under ar- rangements for price equalization increased mark- edly as a result of depressed commodity prices. In early 1983, agreements for trade in manu fac tu res tended to become more formalized; b i la teral agree- ments became more restrictive, as precise under tak- ings were included in some agreements to hold down exports and a floor-price system that wou ld 4 commit exporters to a l ign their export prices w i th domestic prices in the importing country was introduced in others. One major factor often pointed to by indus t r ial groups seeking protection has been the fa i lu re of f lex ib le exchange rates to move in ways consistent w i th early equ i l ibra t ion of trade f lows, although protectionism represents a costly response to such problems of inappropriate exchange rates. Through most of 1982 the effective exchange rates of the U .S. dollar and pound sterling, as measured in terms of the Fund 's multilateral exchange rate model (MERM), appre- ciated in the face of deteriorating balance of payments prospects for those countries. Despite continued unsettled conditions in exchange markets and problems w i th foreign debt exposure, the long- term trend toward liberalization of capital transac- tions in the industrial countries was sustained in 1982, although in several larger developing coun- tries capital flows became severely restricted. In the area of exchange rate arrangements in 1982 there was less official intervention by authorities in the industrial countries than in 1981— as measured by the sum of gross mon th ly changes in official foreign exchange reserves (thereby ex- c lud ing very short-term reversible in te rven t ion ). In other countries, the trend observed since the early 1970s toward greater f lex ib i l i ty of exchange rate arrangements continued; however, at the end of 1982, the majority of Fund members still pegged their currencies to a single currency or a currency composite ( inc lud ing the SDR). Of the total Fund membership of 146, 33 members, inc lud ing the larger members, maintained flexible exchange ar- rangements, but on ly 8 permitted the exchange rates of their currencies to float t ru ly independen t ly. Adjustments to pegged exchange rates occurred on 30 occasions in 1982 invo lv ing, in all instances, devaluations against the peg. Movements of effec- tive exchange rates of the major currencies subject to flexible exchange arrangements, other than the U .S. dollar, generally showed sizable depreciations from the end of 1981 to the end of 1982, as did movements of virtually all other f lex ib ly deter- mined exchange rates. In several instances, deva lua t ions of exchange rates to improve competitiveness in the presence of balance of payments pressures were limited to particular categories of international transactions. In the main, these members introduced, sometimes in the context of adjustment programs supported by the Fund, mu l t ip le exchange rates to l im it price increases of essential imported goods, or to support public and private enterprises that had assumed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION heavy external debt-servicing obligations. At the same time, several countries eliminated existing multiple currency practices, although in most in- stances these had been limited in their coverage. Thus, following an increase in 1981, the number of Fund members maintaining mu l t ip le currency prac- tices leveled off in 1982, although overall the practices became more significant. Commercial and Exchange Policy Developments The international exchange and trade system in 1982 remained subject to restrictive pressure. In the industrial countries, the demands for restrictive actions stemmed mainly from rising unemploy- ment, and in the developing countries, ma in ly from severe external financing difficulties. Two features marked trade actions in general: The f irs t, an increased recourse to quan t i ta t ive, rather than price- or cost-related restrictions, and the second, the distinctly discriminatory, bilateral and commodity- specific character of members' actions; fewer mem- bers' actions were "across-the-board." Members generally did not opt for increases in tariffs, taxes, or import deposit requirements in 1982. However, increased resort was made to quantitative restrictions, with attendant adverse effects on resource allocation in trade; it may be noted that, unlike taxes and tariffs which tend to become part of the fiscal system, one somewhat positive aspect of quantitative controls is that they may be more easily reversed in the event of a recovery in international markets. The tendency in the industrial countries was to take action in the interest of limiting the loss of employment in specific manufacturing industries; an exception was Japan, which undertook some import-liberalizing measures. In most instances, the actions were also country-specific. In the textiles sector, the concept of discriminatory limitation of imports from "domi- nant" suppliers was introduced in the protocols of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA). Measures to curb imports of steel, automobiles, and consumer electronics were predominantly bilateral. Most de- veloping countries' actions in the quantitative area were to limit directly imports of luxury or "non- essential" goods and allowances for travel abroad. Among the developing countries as a group too, there was a clear trend toward intensification of quantitative as well as other restrictions. In the instances in which exceptionally some liberaliza- tion did occur, it took place within the framework of members' programs in support of use of Fund resources. Against the background of the protracted reces- sion and falling commodity prices, the impact of existing restrictions varied according to the form of restrictions; although, overall, their impact has probably been to raise the effective level of protec- tionism. For example, quantitative restrictions ex- pressed in share-of-market terms were more restric- tive than limits expressed in absolute terms. Price- related measures varied in their impact according to the form of tax, subsidy, or multiple exchange rate employed. With falling commodity prices abroad, producers in markets protected by variable-rate subsidies designed to equate domestic prices with world market prices required increased protection, in contrast to situations of flat rate ad valorem levies on imports or subsidies on exports and fixed multiple exchange rates. Bilateralism falling w i th in the Fund's purview was reviewed in 1982 by the Executive Board. Formal bilateral payments arrangements maintained by members were found to have declined further in importance since the mid-1970s. However, ar- rangements falling ma in ly outside the payments system, such as the export restraints and other trade agreements concluded bilaterally between the major industrial countries, and barter and countertrade arrangements in other member and nonmember countries, have become increasingly widespread. These latter types of arrangement have in recent years extended beyond their traditional East-West trade environment, despite frequent problems with the quality, cost, and range of goods obtained by one or both parties to the arrangements. As noted above, a smaller, yet still significant, number of price-related actions (taxes, surcharges, and tariffs) were taken in 1982 than in 1981 to influence imports. Under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) several developed countries continued to improve market access for developing countries; outside of the GSP, industrial countries made some modest reductions in tariffs. Devel- oping countries made various modifications to both tighten and liberalize their tariff structures. As for advance import deposit requirements, there were relatively few actions to increase or impose such requirements in 1982 and in several instances, the scope of these practices was reduced. Balance of payments difficulties led a number of countries to introduce or increase incentives to increase exports. These were mainly fiscal in nature (as there were few unilateral quantitative restraints on exports to be relaxed) and took the form of specific rebates, or 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS a lowering of export taxes or duties. Also common were preferential f inanc ing facilities for exports. Where multiple exchange markets existed, the application of a relatively depreciated rate for certain exports was also used. Measures taken by developing coun try members to restrict current invisibles were widespread, par- ticularly with respect to "nonessential" travel ex- penditures. Remittances of nonresident income were also made more d i f f icu lt to effect in a number of countries. Few measures were introduced to liberalize invisibles transactions. The postwar trend toward a gradual liberalization of international capital f lows, both portfolio and direct investment, con t inued. Among developing countries, liberalization measures affec t ing capital were directed mainly toward fac i l i ta t ing in f lows of capital for balance of payments support; new restrictions on capital outflows were relatively few but were of considerable importance in several countries encountering severe debt-servicing d iff icu l t ies. The growing imbalances in international pay- ments were reflected in a sharp increase in external payments arrears in respect of payments for current international transactions, as well as external debt. After remaining at a relatively constant level of SDR 6-7 billion in the five years through 1981, the total of arrears of Fund members rose sharply toward the end of 1982 to SDR 14 b i l l ion, or 2.5 percent of the outstanding debt of non-oil devel- oping countries. In view of the serious conse- quences of arrears for the international payments system —and for countries ma in ta in ing them in terms of access to and cost of international credit and traded goods —programs in effect w i th the Fund have as an important objective the pro- grammed reduction, and where possible, the elimi- nation of arrears by members. Fund Treatment of Restrictions Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement under- pins the Fund's role in encouraging its members to avoid restrictions on payments for trade and other current payments (which Article XXX defines to include payments due in connection w i th normal short-term banking and credit facilities, and moder- ate amortization payments on capital). The con- siderable progress that has been made over the years toward this basic objective of the Fund— promoting an open multilateral system of pay- ments —was noted in the introduction to the 1982 6 Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions. Under Article V I I I, all members of the Fund have an obligation not to impose restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, nor to engage in discriminatory currency arrangements or multiple currency practices. When members maintain restrictions and currency practices incon- sistent with Article V I I I, or when not specifically approved by the Fund or authorized under the transitional provisions of Article XIV of the Fund 's Articles, these regulations are legally unenforceable in other members' territories. The determination whether or not a particular measure constitutes an exchange restriction or mu l t ip le currency practice w i th in the meaning of Article V I I I, Sections 2 and 3 is made by the Fund on the basis of informa t ion provided by the member's authorities, and w i th in the guidelines established by the Fund 's Executive Board. Actions affecting both the exchange and trade areas fall w i th in the ambit of general surveillance of members' economic policies under Article IV, of the Fund's Articles, as amended in 1978 to incorpo- rate the floating exchange rate system. In particu- lar, "the introduction, substantial in tens i f ica t ion, or prolonged maintenance, for balance of payments purposes, of restrictions on, or incentives for, current transactions or payments, or the introduc- tion or substantial modification for balance of payments purposes of restrictions on, or incentives for, the inflow or outflow of capital" are considered by the Fund as developments that might indicate the need for discussion with a member .' Surveillance of these policies by the Fund takes place in the context of its regular consultations with members, and on other occasions when developments indicate the need for special consultations. In addition, the Fund makes its f inanc ial re- sources available to countries facing balance of payments d iff icu l t ies in support of ad jus tment programs designed to restore balance of payments equilibrium in a manner that is consistent with a liberal exchange and trade system conducive to world trade growth. In accordance w i th th is aim, most programs in association with stand-by ar- rangements and the extended Fund fac i l i ty that were approved during 1982 provided for a reform 'Execu t ive Board Decision No. 5392-(77/63), adopted January 22, 1979, "Principles of Fund Su rve i l lance Over Exchange Rate Policies/' Selected Decisions of the Interna- tional Monetary Fund and Selected Documents, N i n th Issue (Washington, 1981), pages 12-13. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS or liberalization of the exchange and trade system. The exchange liberalization measure most fre- quen t ly specified was the adoption of greater f lex ib i l i ty in exchange rate managemen t, to lessen the need for reliance on adm in is tra t ive controls for the allocation of foreign exchange that wou ld sustain exchange rates at an inappropriate leve l. Un i f ica t ion of exchange markets at a more realistic rate and the reduction in the scope and number of mu l t ip le currency practices were also provided for in several programs. As was noted above, provi- sions relating to the reduction and, where possible, the e l im ina t ion of external paymen ts arrears were also a feature in an increasing number of programs. Trade liberalization measures typ ica l ly invo lved the d isman t l ing of the protective system created by import-substitution policy —the level and dispersion of tariff rates were reduced and quan t i ta t ive restric- tions were abolished for a large share of imports. Other measures inc luded s t ream l in ing the import licensing system and replacing quan t i ta t ive restric- tions w i th a more eff ic ient tar iff system. In a number of cases in wh ich immed ia te l ibera l iza t ion was considered un feas ib le ow ing to the severity of balance of payments pressures, the programs in- cluded an in ten t ion to l ibera l ize trade as progress was made in restoring balance of paymen ts equ i l ib- r ium. In addition, all economic programs adopted by members in support of use of the Fund 's f inanc ial resources incorporated a standard per- formance criterion l im i t ing the ava i lab i l i ty of f inan- cial assistance to the member country if it imposed or intensified exchange and trade restrictions .2 With the accession to membership by An t i- gua and Barbuda (February 25, 1982), Belize (March 16, 1982), and Hungary (May 6, 1982), the total Fund membership increased to 146 countries as of the end of 1982. During 1982, 2 countries, New Zealand (August 5, 1982) and Vanua tu (De- cember 1, 1982) accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the A r t ic les of Agreement, raising to 56 the number of members that have formally accepted these obligations, and 88 members, inc lud ing Hunga ry, were ava i l ing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article X IV, Section 2. Neither An t igua and Bar- buda nor Belize have yet indicated their intention with respect to their status under Article VIII or Article X IV. In addition to those members that have accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, 29 coun- tries availing themselves of the transitional ar- rangements of Article XIV ma in ta in exchange systems that are free or v ir tua l ly free of restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Thirteen of these countries are mem- bers of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion or the Central African Monetary Area. II. Main Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements This section reports on major developments in members' exchange rates and exchange ar- rangements as notified to the Fund in accordance with members' obligations under Article IV, Sec- tion 2(a), of the Articles of Agreement. Devel- opments in respect of mu l t ip le exchange market arrangements and official measures resu l t ing in different buy ing or selling rates are summarized in a separate section on mu l t ip le currency practices. Surveillance of exchange arrangements of mem- bers by the Fund, as required under Article IV, Section 3, is normally conducted in the context of consultations, but changes introduced dur ing the intervening period are notified to the Execu t ive Board. In February 1982 the Execu t ive Board reviewed exchange arrangements ma in ta ined by members in the period since the Second Amend- ment of the Fund 's Articles in 1978 and the criteria for classifying these arrangements. To fac i l i ta te the implementation of the Fund 's surveillance policy in this area, members' exchange arrangements are classified under three broad headings, as follows: (1) currencies that are pegged to a single currency or to a composite of currencies ( inc lud ing the SDR); (2) currencies whose exchange rates, al- though not pegged, have displayed limited f lex ib i l- ity compared with either a single currency or a group of currencies; and (3) currencies whose exchange rates are more flexible. The basic distin- guishing factor for the classification of members' exchange arrangements is the extent and form of the flexibility that these arrangements permit, and th is criterion is also applied to subcategorize each of the broad headings in Table 1. Under the provisions of the amended Article IV, Fund members acquired the right to ma in ta in exchange arrangements of 2Th is performance c r i te r ion states th at if a member mod i f ies i ts exchange system i n c o n s i s t e n t ly w i th A r t i c le V I II of the Fund 's A r t ic les, whe ther approved by the Fund or no t, or imposes or in t en s i f i es import res t r ic t ions for ba lance of payments reasons, it is prevented from purchasing under a stand-by arrangement or the extended Fund f a c i l i t y. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E P O R T O N E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S A N D E X C H A N G E R E S T R I C T I O N S f t 1 1 1 5 « C < * & > > | « g 1 - 3 a | f j " 8 * 2 | * * U . 2 £ , 3 c o D D 3 - . De « |l | - l 3 ^ 0 , - 3 " 6 s j . s l ? * > > e s l 1 i < S H i l l 1 1II I I l l l t l i s l l J " f O 0 0 * 0 2 w I I « I ^ l - f H e t S S S I « S S S 1 I I f u f ^ " h ! H H i 1 1 1 J l 1 | 1 § , 8 , 5 , 2 ( 8 £ 1 . 3 2 | < 3 "m - g » i v § ' - 1 i ' » £ £ « 0 2 , « o ~ 2 l i l < l l g p ^ < 3 2 g | - | * g g « 2 1 K S < o a a a s a J ? * - d . f i S I I " , J i l . I I L % I I > J * 1 i & l s i | f l , i - l 8 l l l l i U l l l i i 1 P i H H N p f i l l l l < < f f l f f l U U U t ? L i : i 3 S S S S S Z c £ i ^ c ^ c ^ £ 3 - g . a S g £ | o I . 8 . J J S | . " J l l i ' J I I S 1 ! ! ! I i i > - , | ^ _ U H i B I 5 s e . l « l 4 : « 5 o ? S o ? I j ! ! f ! £ : p p O Q i 2 O J & I1 - § S I 1 ^ l 1 2 1 o c 6 - a ^ | | 1 1 U ^ U 1 § 1 S 1 1 Z | 6 O Q U U U O ^ c / 5 H P I s i 1 t i . i . a n I - . . i l , ! W * 5 3 « « x « ^ 1 c a ' 5 - o S S e « 1 ; , « 3 c c s 1 r " I l l l I S I ^ J l l t l i l l l ^ j J J Z Z O o , a , o i o i w w v i c ^ w H > > - > ^ ! l " 8 8 . - - s L i . , - 3 a T , I I J i l l H i l l s i s & G f O « l » S a 1 1 , c w c 3 P Q 3 T P 3 Q o O Q a : 0 s > Q § Q Q Q o * S « - £ O D C c a J g 3 < ( f i U U Q t t K ^ i^* f ^ H^S1A s^2g|<£C 9 O SIIX t i1 - HMSf l 8 s a - s - s i I s f i " o 2 S « = ' o 5 = H ^ 5 - i l l 1 1 = § 1 1 i i 1 1 i i * i i i i i j f t ; i « i ? * 1 t f I g $ * o j c ^ < u - c 2 S ^ § ^ ^ « Q - i + l o W e 8 « r . e 3 o ^ U ( ^ o « U c S ^ c - f i < U * - " w J o . - O ^ £ * > ^ ^ * - " ^ « < u « * ^ » 3 _ *• ' < _ ; " " 2 3 O c c ^ . & c S 2 < > u > ^ ! 8 3 1 , * | . S I I ^ S 8 | ^ w c ' s c 8 . . " £ w ^ . £ S . i x « - . . ^ , f c ^ ^ 3 3 2 ^ ^ 3 c « ^ M K K g | " g J J g 1 + 1 + 1 I i « 1 1 M n « i ? l ! I I f t H i f i ! n i i s ^ ' S t s i 3 i S S « i s i S i * ' i 1 s 3 S & h s * l | l 1 1 « I f I S S i l l I H i P l i j g i l i l g t S ^ ^ t l l J 1 ! £ * . 8 ^ ^ 1 . 2 c ^ f c l < u < u i s i | i : ^ ^ i | 2 2 _ g l ^ " 8 i i i | 5 | S i ! M f = i i ^ i ^ ^ 3 ^ « C « ^ ^ C ; C ; C S ^ ^ T ^ s i n J 3 ' ^ ! t i l s l S 3 § J ! s s s | i i « n n * s i i i I N l i J l N ^ l l I! J K ^ u i t u C f L c ^ i ' O ^ C . = S I 8 > t " * ; > , > t , J = I & S s 5 4 s 8 H s f s l g ^ S S g l I I 1 i ^ i i i i i i i f s i ^ i j j ^ . l i l g 1 » a | . | | ] ! l l i i i | 1 i & i f ^ I 5 ! ! 5 ^ N l « S g - 5 2 1 | o s w » 5 2 S > , - S f e 3 ^ I ! ! ? ! ! U S H i S p i l l l ! ! ! ! i H | i : ! H ! « l l o S ' w ^ ^ ^ ^ s - u ^ a j 5 ^ s " 8 > , c i 5 S P * 6 l - - ! | S S = , g i i s " 3 ! i . . i a : o S > j , - g | 3 u - : 8 J = | S i | S i 2 - £ s » - i s F l § a ^ r a § a o ^ S = S l l l l 8 i l l i M i I 3 i ^ h ' i | t S f ' l i 8 j ^ & H l 2 l l s i l f i f S ^ S i l g l | i : . g « f i g . 6 > S " s S 6 J * u B : S u « f ' g g - s 6 S 2 | s s 8 ' | v s - S : « a | s t f . I l l l l H l ! ' I i l l l u f l M l f - ^ l 3 l l l l E s l l l | - | ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • ° • „ „ — • • • • • • • ° ° ° • ° • • ° € ° • MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS their choice, as well as certain obligations regarding the communication of these arrangements to the Fund. During the February 1982 review of changes in exchange regimes adopted by members, it was noted that, under the provisions of the Second Amendment, the international exchange rate system had continued to evolve toward greater f lex ib i l i ty of arrangements.3 A major aspect of th is evo lu t ion has been the subs t i tu t ion of various forms of managed floating for pegged arrangements, in pa r t icu la r, a r rangemen ts i n v o l v i ng a peg to a s ing le currency. Another feature of the movement away from single currency pegs has been the increased use of currency composites, inc lud ing the SDR, that have yielded more con t inuous ad jus tmen ts of exchange rates in l ine w i th var ia t ions in competitiveness. In v iew of the more heterogeneous na tu re of members' arrangements permitted under the amended Article IV, the new c lass i f ica t ion on the basis of f lex ib i l i ty provided a more sa t isfac tory description of arrangements of the large number of members' arrangements in the p rev ious ly unde f ined residual category.4 The new c lass i f ica t ion in c lud ed a distinction between managed and independen t ly f loa t ing arrangements. The trend toward the adoption of more f l ex ib le exchange arrangements con t inued in 1982. Du r ing th is t ime, six countries changed the ir exchange arrangements to or from pegged arrangemen ts, of wh ich five moved in the direction of greater f l ex ib i l i ty. The other member reverted to a s ing le currency peg in con junc t ion w i th a sizable deva lua- tion and an effort to u n i fy its m u l t i p le exchange markets. Two other countries that had p rev ious ly l im i ted the f l ex ib i l i ty of the ir exchange rate in terms 3The increased f l e x i b i l i ty of membe r s' ex ch ange ar- rangemen ts in the 1970s as compared w i th the B re t ton Woods system is ev id ent from a compar ison of the ave rage m a g n i t u d es of exchange rate changes in the period J anu a ry 1948-August 1971, and in the sub s equ ent period t h r o u gh the end of 1 9 8 1. For the Fund m emb e r sh ip as a w h o l e, the average m o n t h ly change (w i t h o ut regard to s i g n) rose f o u r f o l d, f rom 0 .3 pe rcent in the former period to 1.4 percent in the l a t t e r. The inc rease in f l e x i b i l i ty in terms of a n n u al changes was less t h an a doub l ing — f rom an average change of 4.3 percent a year to 7.2 percent a yea r — re f lec t ing in part the greater f r e q u e n cy of par va lue ad ju s tmen ts in the second ha lf of the 1960s, w h i ch served as a pre lude to the f lo a t ing of the 1970s. The inc rease in f l e x i b i l i ty was more marked for the g roup of i n d u s t r i al coun t r ies, for w h i ch average m o n t h ly changes increased a lmo st ten fo ld, from 0 .2 percent to 1.9 pe rcen t, and a n n u al changes almost qu ad rup l ed, from 2 .5 percent to 9 .2 pe rcen t. 4 Prior to the adop t ion of the new c l a s s i f i c a t i on in the 1982 rev iew, members' a r rangemen ts und er the " F l e x i b i l i ty L im i t e d: Single Currency ," "More F l ex ib l e: O ther Managed F l o a t i n g ," and " Independen t ly F loa t ing" h e ad ings were grouped toge ther in the res idual category "Other." of a single currency undertook instead to manage their exchange rate on a flexible basis; a third ceased management altogether and now allows its exchange rate to float independen t ly. Five other countries did d im in ish the f lex ib i l i ty of their ex- change arrangement s l igh t ly, but two of these did so w i th in the context of a simplification of their mu l t ip le exchange markets. Developments in Major Currencies Subject to Flexible Arrangemen ts5 No major changes occurred in the ins t i tu t ional arrangements of, or participation in, the EMS du r ing the period under rev iew. Pressures did develop, however, w i th in the EMS on several occasions in 1982, and as a consequence two rea l ignmen ts of the parity grid took place. The pressure on the Belgian franc that had begun in December 1981 in tens if ied du r ing the early part of 1982, and despite heavy in terven t ion by the Na- t ional Bank of Be lg ium, the f ranc 's divergence indicator remained close to its lower threshold. 6 As the Danish krone also began to come under pressure, the central rates and bilateral in te rven t ion l im i ts of the EMS currencies were realigned on February 22. The ad jus tmen ts resulted in a devalua- tion of the Belgian franc and the Danish krone by 8.5 percent and 3 percent, respectively, against the other EMS currencies. The exchange rate adjust- ment for the Be lg ian franc was the largest for one single currency since the inception of the EMS. In deriving the new ECU central rates, the notional ECU central rate of the pound sterling was revalued by almost 8 percent to allow for the change in its market rate since the realignment of October 1981. 5 For changes in 1982 of the exchange rates of t h is group ot members, see Table 2. 6I n t e r v e n t i on in EMS cu r renc ie s, w h i ch is requ ired in u n l im i t ed amoun ts when b i l a t e r al l im i ts a re reached, may create c la ims on or l i a b i l i t i es to the very short-term f a c i l i ty of the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (EMCF ). These c la ims must then be settled no rma l ly by the t ran s fer of ECUs or other reserve assets w i t h in a specified period not exceeding 45 days of the end of the month in wh i ch in te rven t ion takes place. Settlements may be deferred au tom a t i c a l ly for three m o n t h s4 and for a fu r th er three mon ths by m u t u al agreemen t. The d ivergence ind ica tor is a measure of the divergence of the market rate expressed in ECUs for each EMS cu r rency from its ECU central rate. Divergence thresho lds are established for each cu r rency, t ak ing in to account i ts we ight in the ECU basket in such a manner that there is broadly the same degree of p robab i l i ty of each EMS cu r rency reach ing its th resho ld. If a thresho ld is reached or exceeded, there is a presump t ion that the au tho r i t ies concerned w i ll correct the s i tua t ion by d ivers i- fied in t e rv en t ion, measures of domestic monetary policy, changes in cen tral rates, or other economic po l icy measures. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table 2. Exchange Rate Movements of Currencies of Industrial Countries with "Cooperative" or "Independently Floating" Arrangements (December 31, 1981-December 31, 1982) Exchange Rate (Currency Un i ts per US$) (End of Period) MERM index (1975 = 100) Belgian/Luxembourg (franc) Canada (dollar) Denmark (krone) France (franc) Germany, Fed. Rep. (deutsche mark) Ireland (pound) Italy (lira) Japan (yen) Netherlands (guilder) United Kingdom (pound sterling) United States (dollar) Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1982 1981 1981 38. .46 46. .92 1. .1859 1. .2294 7. ,325 8. .384 5. .748 6. .725 2. .2548 2, .3765 0. .6329 0, .7161 1,200. ,0 1,370. .0 219. .90 235. .00 2. 469 2. 625 0. .52411 0. .61939 104 .32 93 .58 88 .64 89 .36 87.47 84 .43 80 .72 75 .06 122 .13 128 .57 78 .52 75 .96 55 .86 53 .41 144 .95 144 .19 114 .90 119 .18 90 .93 83 .95 107 .22 118.39 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation ( — ) Against US$ MERM -18 .0 -10 .3 -3 .5 - H O, .8 -12 .6 -3.5 -14 .5 -7, .0 -5 .1 + 5. .3 -11 .6 -3, .3 -12 .4 -4.4 -6 .4 -0 .5 -5, .9 -H 3, .7 -15 .4 -7, .7 + 10. .4 Source: International Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics. When the realignment was announced, the ex- change rates of the Belgian franc and the Danish krone showed the most movement against the U .S. dollar, depreciating by 5.4 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively; the exchange rates of the other partici- pants in the EMS appreciated marginally against the U .S. dollar. Immediately subsequent to the realign- ment, developments within the EMS were char- acterized by slight pressure on the Belgian franc and the Italian lira bu t, in particular, by heavy speculative activity against the French franc, emanating both from a widening inflation rate differential between France and its industrial part- ners and from the political factors associated with regional elections in France. In consequence the Bank of France progressively raised its call money rate in March and, in a synchronized effort, the Federal Republic of Germany lowered its Lombard rate, and the Netherlands and Switzerland both reduced their discount rates. These actions were sufficient to temporarily quell heavy speculative activity bu t, fueled by rumors of a possible further realignment, pressure against the Belgian and French francs and the Italian lira resurfaced in late May and during the first weeks of June, requiring heavy intervention in defense of the existing parity grid. On the weekend of June 12, 1982 and with effect from June 14, 1982, the central rates and bilateral intervention limits of the EMS currencies were again realigned. The French franc and the Italian lira were devalued by 5.75 percent and 2.75 percent, respectively, while the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder were revalued by 4.25 percent against the currencies of Belgium, Luxem- 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS bourg, Denma rk, and I re land. Th is EMS rea l ign- ment was the sixth since the inception of the system in March 1979 and the largest in terms of the magnitude of changes in bilateral rates. The adjust- ments implied a revaluation of the deutsche mark and Netherlands guilder of 10.6 percent against the French franc and of 7.2 percent against the Italian lira. On the basis of the EMS central rates, the realignment entailed overall effective depreciations of the French franc and the Italian lira of 6.3 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively, wh i le the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder each showed an effective appreciation of 3.6 percent; the realignment's impact was least significant in effec- t ive terms for B e l g i um, D enm a rk, I r e l and, and Luxembourg. On June 14, 1982 all the currencies of the countries participating in the EMS depre- ciated against the U .S. dollar, ranging from a decline of 6.3 percent by the French franc to a depreciation of 0.7 percent by the Netherlands gu i lder. Following the rea l ignmen t, speculative pressures w i th in the EMS disappeared, only to re- emerge in August against the French franc, wh ich moved to the middle of the band after hav ing been at or near its top. Pressure against the French franc continued and, for most of the remainder of the year, led to substantial in terven t ion. The Danish krona also came under pressure in September and October, and toward the end of the year both the Belgian franc and the Italian lira required support, the former be ing occas iona l ly at or be low its thresho ld of d ivergence in December. During 1982 the U .S. dollar appreciated against the EMS currencies, the Japanese yen, and the Swiss franc and somewhat less against the Cana- dian dollar. The upward trend in the exchange rate of the U .S. dollar observed toward the end of 1981 continued, albeit w i th a minor downward move- ment in April and May, through early November, when the U .S. dollar reached its highest level against the SDR since the basket method of va lu ing the SDR came into effec t. During th is period the U .S. dollar was buoyed by a reduction in the rate of domestic inf la t ion, relatively high interest rates on dollar-denominated assets, and, to some ex ten t, both international political tensions and fears con- cerning the international f inanc ial system. The combination of these factors was most pronounced in the three-month period prior to early November, during which time the U .S. dollar reached record high levels against some major currencies and on ly the Canadian dollar recorded modest ga ins against it —largely on the strength of positive interest rate differentials and a con t inu ing trade surplus w i th the United States. The continual firming trend of the U .S. dollar was reversed in mid-November follow- ing a decline in U .S. interest rates and a sharp deterioration of the U .S. trade deficit. A further modest narrowing of international interest rate differentials, and the expectation of continuing decreases in U .S. interest rates, led in December to an easing of the U .S. dollar against all major currencies except the pound sterling. In 1982, all the major currencies depreciated against the U .S. dollar. The depreciation (from the end of 1981 to the end of 1982) ranged from 3.5 percent for the Canadian dollar to 18 percent for the Belgian franc. The U .S. authorities intervened in the foreign exchange markets on five occasions in June, Augus t, and October in line w i th the U .S. policy of intervening only to counter disorderly market conditions. As there were in 1980 and 1981, so were there sizable movements in the effective exchange rates of the currencies of most industrial countries in 1982.7 In effective end-of-year terms, the largest appreciations were recorded by the U .S. dollar and the deutsche mark, which rose by 10.4 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively. The Austrian sch i l l ing gained 3.8 percent in effective terms, and the currencies of Canada and the Netherlands rose by 0.8 percent and 3.7 percent, respectively. On the other hand, all EMS currencies, w i th the above- mentioned exceptions of those of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands, declined in effective terms, from 3.3 percent for the Irish pound to 10.5 percent for both the Belgian and Luxembourg francs. As a group the EMS curren- cies shown in the "Cooperative Arrangements" column of Table 1 depreciated in effective (trade- weighted MERM) terms by an average of 0.8 percent during 1982. The effective exchange rates of the currencies of the remaining industrialized nations all depreciated —ranging from 0.5 percent for the Japanese yen to 2 percent and 7.2 percent for the Swiss and Australian currencies, respectively, and 16.2 percent for the Swedish krona. Developments Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements During the period under rev iew, 15 members notified the Fund of changes in their exchange 7Based on the F u n d 's m u l t i l a t e r al exchange rate model (MERM ), in w h i ch the im p l i c it w e igh t ing s truc ture takes account of the re la t ive importance of a coun t ry 's trad ing partners in its direct b i la teral re la t ionsh ips w i th th em, of competitive re la t ion sh ips w i th "third countries" in par t icu lar marke ts, and of estimated e la s t ic i t ies a f fec t ing trade f lows. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS arrangements involving reclassification under the Fund's classification scheme for exchange ar- rangements (Table 1). These notifications involved 18 reclassifications and 14 reclassifications on a net end-year basis. In addition, initial notifications of exchange arrangements were received from Anti- gua and Barbuda, Belize, and Hungary. Two exchange arrangements involving SDR pegs were announced. Sierra Leone, which had pre- viously pegged its currency to the SDR, notified the Fund in December that the exchange market for the leone had been split into two recognized markets: an official market in which the exchange rate would be set daily by the Bank of Sierra Leone and a commercial market in which the exchange rate would be determined by fortnightly tenders. Sierra Leone's exchange arrangement was consequently reclassified to the "Other Managed Floating" sub- classification of the "More Flexible" category. Somalia announced that with effect from Ju ly 1 the exchange rate for the Somali shilling would cease to be pegged to the U .S. dollar and wou ld, instead, maintain a fixed relationship with the SDR w i th in margins of 2.25 percent. Accordingly, the Somali shilling was reclassified from the category "Pegged: U.S. Dollar" to the category "Pegged: SDR." During the same period, four members adopted single currency pegs bu t, of these, one subse- quently reverted to its former arrangement. Four other members (including Somalia, above) an- nounced that they had ceased to observe a single currency peg. One member adopted the practice of pegging to a currency composite other than the SDR. On assuming membership with the Fund, Antigua and Barbuda announced in February 1982 that its currency was the East Caribbean dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar. In March 1982 Belize, in its initial exchange arrangement notifica- tion to the Fund announced that its currency, the Belize dollar, was pegged to the U .S. dollar. Bolivia twice altered its exchange arrangements during 1982. Effective March 22, Bolivia adopted a dual exchange market system consisting of an official market in which the Central Bank would establish buying and selling rates, and a free market in which most exchange transactions would be effected. Accordingly, the Bolivian peso was re- classified from the "Flexibility Limited" category to the "Other Managed Float" category. On Novem- ber 8, Bolivia unified its exchange markets and pegged the peso to the U .S. dollar, with the result that the exchange arrangement for the peso was reclassified to the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar." Under a generalized system of foreign exchange 12 control, Mexico announced on September 6 two exchange rates for the peso, both pegged to the U .S. dollar. Consequently, the Mexican peso was reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" to "Pegged: U .S. Dol- lar." On December 10, Mexico established two new foreign exchange markets: (1) a controlled market in which the exchange rate would be established by the authorities and adjusted on a daily basis; and (2) a free market in which the exchange rate would be determined by supply and demand. Accordingly, the Mexican peso was reclassified again under the "Other Managed Floating" category. In mid-June Chile changed the exchange arrangement for its peso from a U .S. dollar peg to an arrangement whereby the exchange rate for the peso would be determined on the basis of a currency basket, against which the peso was to be depreciated on a daily basis at a rate equivalent to 0.8 percent a month. The Chilean peso was therefore reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to the "Other Managed Floating" category. After some further changes in the exchange regime, Chile announced on September 29 a reference exchange rate for the peso against the U .S. dollar. This rate, which was applied to all foreign exchange transac- tions other than the servicing of some foreign debt obligations, was adjusted daily by the difference between the average change in the consumer price index of the previous month and the world inf la t ion rate. As a result of these latter changes the Chilean peso was reclassified to the category of "More Flexible: Adjusted According to a Set of Indi- cators." With effect from April 2, Madagascar ceased to peg the Malagasy franc to the French franc and began instead to peg its currency to a composite of currencies that reflected the distribu- tion of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. In light of this development, the Malagasy franc was reclassified from the "Pegged: French Franc" cate- gory to that of "Pegged: Other Composite." Paki- stan indicated in January that a managed floating exchange rate for the rupee would be maintained. The State Bank of Pakistan would now fix the rupee exchange rate against the U .S. dollar on a daily basis. As a result of this action, the Pakistan rupee was reclassified from the "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" category to the "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" category. On assuming membership with the Fund, Hungary announced in May 1982 that the management of the exchange rate of the forint with respect to convertible currencies would be guided by a weighted basket of nine currencies, with the weights reflecting the currency composition of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS Hungary's export receipts. The external value of the forint would be adjusted at varying intervals, generally w i th in margins of 1 percent around the established basket peg. Accordingly, the Hungarian forint was classified in the category "Pegged: Other Composite." The exchange regimes of a fur ther eight countries were reclassified to or from the "More Flexible" groups. Five countries opted to manage the float of their currencies, one allowed its currency to float independently, while the other two limited the flexibility of the exchange rate of their currencies to within narrow margins with respect to the currency of another member. Argentina modified its ex- change arrangements on several occasions. The exchange rate of the peso for most transactions floated independently in the first half of the year. With effect from Ju ly 6, two exchange markets for the peso were established: (1) a commercial market in which the rate was set daily by the Central Bank; and (2) a financial market in which the exchange rate for the peso floated freely. From the latter part of Ju ly un t il the end of October, however, the exchange rate in the f inanc ial market remained stable in terms of the U .S. dollar. On November 1 the exchange markets were un i f ied, w i th the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar being set on a daily basis by the Central Bank. In view of these developments, the Argentine peso was reclassified w i th in the "More Flexible" category from the subclassification of "Independently Floating" to that of "Other Managed Floating." With effect from August 9, the authorities of Costa Rica closed all authorized exchange houses and transferred all exchange transactions to the banking system. As the rate in the banking market, now the major exchange market for the Costa R ican colon, is adjusted periodically in the light of supply and demand developments, the Costa R ican colon was reclassified within the "More Flexible" category from "Independently Floating" to "Other Managed Floating." The Greek drachma was similarly reclas- sified in accordance w i th the in terven t ion by the Bank of Greece in the determination of the ex- change rate of the drachma. On the basis of developments in the f lex ib i l i ty of their exchange rate management, the exchange arrangements of both Morocco and the Philippines were reclassified from the category "Flexibility Limited: Single Currency" to that of "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating." On November 29 the Central Bank of Uruguay discontinued its policy adopted in December 1978 of announc ing exchange rates in advance and now permits the exchange rate of the new peso to be determined by supply and demand without intervention from the Central Bank. The Uruguayan new peso was accordingly reclassified within the "More Flexible" category from "Other Managed Floating" to "Independently Floating." The exchange arrangements maintained by Af- ghanistan and Thailand were reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" to that of "Flexibility Limited: Single Currency"; both countries have limited the f lex ib i l i ty of their exchange rates in terms of the U .S. dollar. At the end of December 1982, the currencies of 56 members were pegged to a single currency (38 to the U .S. dollar, 13 to the French f ranc, 2 to the South African rand, and 1 each to the Indian rupee, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta). Fifteen currencies were pegged to the SDR and 23 to other currency composites. In all, 94 members had currencies classified under the "Pegged" category. Eighteen members ma in ta ined exchange ar- rangements classified in the "Flexibility Limited" category. W i th in this grouping 10 currencies were in the "Single Currency" subclassification (all against the U .S. dollar) as a result of hav ing their exchange rates fluctuate w i th in margins of 21A percent or less against an iden t i f iab le single cur- rency of another member; the other 8 currencies, as shown in Table 1, were those of the nations maintaining cooperative arrangements w i th in the EMS. Thirty-three members maintained exchange arrangements in the "More Flexible" category; of these 5 adjusted their exchange rates according to a set of indicators, 20 operated a managed float, and 8 floated independently .8 Other Developments in Exchange Arrangements During 1982 numerous modifications of ex- change arrangements that did not en ta il a change in the Fund's classification of the arrangements were also notified to the Fund. These modifications involved, in the ma in, discrete ad jus tmen ts in the exchange value of pegged currencies, changes in the mode or pace of change of preannounced exchange rates, adjustments of currency baskets determining the exchange value of currencies (w i th- out necessarily involving a change in the level of the peg), adjustments of margins about the peg, and discrete adjustments to exchange rates maintained under more flexible arrangements. "No current Kampuchea. in fo rma t ion is ava i lab le on Democratic 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS As in 1981, many countries devalued their currencies discretely during 1982. Those w i th currencies linked to the U .S. dollar or to currency composites effected devaluations because of the strength of the U .S. dollar and domestic policy considerations. In other instances, devaluations were undertaken in order to correct for real appreci- ations that had taken place over a number of years. Other members lowered the international va lue of their currencies on a regular basis w i thou t, how- ever, being guided by an explicit set of indicators; these members included a small number that prean- nounced their exchange rates with a view to reducing uncertainty and to affecting inf la t ionary expectations. Discrete devaluations of exchange rates undertaken by members in 1982 are sum- marized in Table 3. Bangladesh altered the middle rate of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency,9 on two occasions during 1982, for a cumulative depreciation against the pound sterling of 2.5 percent and depreciations in terms of the SDR and the U .S. dollar of 13 percent and 17.6 percent, respectively. On February 5, 1982 the Central Bank of Bolivia announced a 44.3 percent devaluation of the peso with respect to the U .S. dollar. In November Bolivia unified its exchange markets at a new mid-rate of $b 198 = US$1 representing a 78 percent devaluation of the peso with respect to the previous official mid-rate for the U.S. dollar. On May 7 the Botswana pula was devalued by 10 percent against the currency com- posite to which it is pegged. In adopting a managed float the Central Bank of Chile, on June 15, devalued the peso by 15.2 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar, against which the peso had been pegged. In September the Central Bank of Chile set a preferential rate for the servicing of certain foreign debts contracted prior to August 6; this rate, which is adjusted daily on the basis of the rate of change in the consumer price index in the previous month, was initially set, with effect from Augu st 6, at Ch$49.623 •= US$1, representing a devaluation of 5.2 percent against the exchange rate of August 5. Ecuador modified on March 3 the operation of its dual exchange market system by announcing that trade transactions other than petro- leum exports would take place at rates that repre- sented a depreciation of 13 percent for essential 9 Effective January 1 1, 1983 the in te rven t ion currency was Changed to the U .S. dollar at a mid-rate of Tk 24.50 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 0.6 percent against the U .S. dollar. 14 imports and of 21 percent for all other imports and exports. On May 13 the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the sucre was devalued by 24.2 percent against its previous U .S. dollar rate that had been in effect since 1970. Finland devalued the markka twice in October for a cumu la t ive depreciaton of 9.6 percent against the currency basket to wh ich the markka is pegged. Guinea, in the context of an overall adjustment program, fo rma l ly adopted on Decem- ber 1 a system whereby official sales of foreign exchange would be limited to off ic ial uses on ly, while leaving all other transactions to be settled through the outside market. This new arrangement is tantamount to a dual exchange rate regime. The Hungarian forint was devalued on J u ly 13 by 7 percent relative to the basket of currencies to wh ich it is pegged; further devaluations of 3 percent and 1 percent were effected on November 30 and Decem- ber 7, respectively. On October 16, the Central Bank of Iraq devalued the dinar by 5 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar. Kenya, whose currency is pegged to the SDR, devalued the sh i l l ing on December 10 and again dur ing the last few days of December for a cumu la t ive depreciation of 15 percent against the SDR. In January the Lao People's Democratic Republic moved the preferen- tial exchange rate from KN 30 to KN 35 per U .S. dollar, representing a devaluation of 14.3 percent. The Malagasy franc was devalued on May 17 by 13 percent in terms of the currency composite to wh ich it has been pegged since early April. Effective April 24 Malawi devalued its currency, the kwacha, by 13 percent against the SDR. In February the Mauritanian ouguiya was devalued by 2 percent in terms of the currency basket to wh ich it is pegged. Mauritius, on August 31, 1982, e l im ina ted the special rate for the imports of rice and wheat by making them subject, as are all transactions, to the pegged rate of Mau Rs 12 = SDR 1, thereby implementing a 16.7 percent devaluation for the two goods affected. With effect from December 17, the Nepal Rastra Bank devalued the rupee by 1.1 percent with respect to the U .S. dollar. As a resu lt of a revision of the composition and weights of the currency basket to which the krone is pegged, the Norwegian krone depreciated by 3 percent on August 2; on September 6 the krone was devalued by a further 3 percent against its currency compo- site. On January 8 Pakistan announced that it wou ld maintain a managed f loa t ing exchange rate for the rupee. On January 10, the first working day after the arrangement was introduced, the State Bank 's buy ing rate, from authorized dealers, for the U .S. dollar was PRs 10.10 = US$1, wh ich represented a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS Table 3. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Pegged to Other Single Currencies or Currency Composites, 1982l Bangladesh (taka)3 Bolivia (peso) Botswana (pula) Chile (peso) Ecuador (sucre) Finland (markka) Hungary (forint) Iraq (dinar) Kenya (shilling) Lao, People's Dem. Rep. (kip) Madagascar (franc) Malawi (kwacha) Mauritania (ouguiya) Nepal (rupee) Norway (krone) Paraguay (guarani) Romania (leu)4 Solomon Islands (dollar) Somalia (shilling) Sudan (pound) Sweden (krona) Tanzania (shilling)5 Zimbabwe (dollar)5 Date of Change Jan. 11 Aug. 24 Nov. 8 May 7 June 15 May 13 Oct. 6 Oct. 10 Ju ly 13 Nov. 30 Dec. 7 Oct. 16 Dec. 10 Dec. 31 Jan. May 17 Apr. 24 Feb. Dec. 17 Aug. 2 Sept. 6 Ju ly 16 Jan. 1 Ju ly 1 Aug. 13 Ju ly 1 Nov. 15 Oct. 8 Mar. 8 Dec. 9 Peg Other composite Other composite U .S. dollar Other composite U .S. dollar U .S. dollar Other composite Other composite Other composite Other composite Other composite U .S. dollar SDR SDR U .S. dollar Other composite SDR Other composite U .S. dollar Other composite Other composite U .S. dollar U .S. dollar U .S. dollar Other composite U .S. dollar U .S. dollar Other composite Other composite Other composite Domestic Currency Units per Unit of Foreign Currency or SDR Peg2 Old rate New rate 38.0068 38.4220 43.57 38.4220 39.0000 198.0 39.0 25.0 46.0 33.0 .2953 11.95 13.74 .31086 13.74 14.06 30.0 35.0 1.0541 1.2122 13.2 14.3 126.0 10.0 12.0 160.0 12.0 15.0 12.59 0.90 8.440 0.7601 15.2072 1.30 9.28435 0.9107 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation ( — ) (in Terms of Domestic Currency per Un it of Foreign Currency or SDR Peg) -1.1 -1.5 -78.0 -10.0 -15.2 -24.2 -4.2 -5.7 -7.0 -3.0 -1.0 -5.0 -13.0 -2.3 -14.3 -13.0 -13.0 -2.0 -7.7 -3.0 -3.0 -21.3 -16.7 -20.0 -10.0 -17.2 -30.8 -15.9 -9.1 -16.5 1 The information presented in this table relates to those members whose exchange arrangements were classified in the categories pegged to a single currency or currency composite prior to or on the date of the devaluation. 2Exchange rates shown are midpoints of buying and selling rates. 3The currency units and magnitude of devaluation are expressed in terms of pound sterling, the intervention currency. 4The exchange rate changes during 1982 involved only the rate being applied to crude oil imports, which is the single remaining rate different from the commercial rate of lei 15 = US$1. 5The currency units and magnitude of devaluation are expressed in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency. 2.0 percent depreciation in terms of the previously fixed rate of PRs 9.90 = US$1. Subsequen t ly the rupee-U.S. dollar rate was changed 67 t imes for a cumulative depreciation of the rupee of 22.9 per- cent in 1982. Paraguay, w i th effect from J u ly 16, fixed the previously floating free market exchange rate at a level that represented a 21 .3 percent devaluation against the official rate of (£ 126 = US$ 1. Effective January 1, Roman ia depreciated the rate for imports of crude oil by 16.7 percent from lei 10 to lei 12 per US$1, in conjunction with fur ther steps to u n i fy the commercial exchange rate. On J u ly 1, the separate rate for crude oil imports was fur ther devalued by 20 percent, thereby mak ing 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the commercial exchange rate of lei 15 per US$1 applicable to all imports paid for in convertible currencies. In late December, Roman ia depreciated its noncommercial exchange rate by 12 percent against the U .S. do l la r .10 The Solomon Is lands dollar was devalued on August 13 by 10 percent relative to its currency basket; concu r ren t ly the Monetary Authority was authorized to make fu r ther discretionary ad jus tmen ts to the ex ternal va lue of the Solomon Islands do l lar up to a l im it of 2 percent against the basket du r ing any four-week period. On Ju ly 1 Somalia, in e f fec t ive ly abo l ish ing its dual market system, pegged the sh i l l ing to the SDR, w i th in margins of 2.25 percent, at So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1; the Ju ly 1 mid-rate for the U . S. dollar was So. Sh. 15.2072 = US$1, representing a deval- uation of 17.2 percent from the previous rate of So. Sh. 12.59 per US$1 applicable to most transac- tions. In mid-November the off ic ial exchange rate for the Sudanese pound against the U .S. do l lar, the intervention currency, was changed from LSd 0.90 = US$1 to LSd 1.30 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 30.8 percent. On October 8, the authorities of Sweden announced a change in the benchmark of the currency index for the Swedish krona from the previous level of 111 to 132 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The Sveriges R ik sbank announced that it wou ld permit only small f luc tua- tions around the new benchmark of 132, wh ich represented a 15.9 percent devaluation of the krona against its basket. The Syrian Arab Repub l ic on May 24 introduced a third foreign exchange market in which transactions relating to private transfers and the tourist trade wou ld be effected; the in i t ial rate in this market of LS 5.75 = US$1 represented depreciations of 31.7 percent and 6 1 .1 percent against the official rate of LS 3.925 = US$1 and the parallel market rate of LS 5.40 = US$1 on May 23, respectively. Effec t ive March 8, the Bank of Tanzania changed the central rate for the sh i l l ing against the U .S. dollar from T Sh 8.440 = US$1 to T Sh 9.28435 = US$1, wh ich represented a 9.1 percent depreciation of the sh i l l ing against the U .S. dollar. Uganda introduced a dual exchange market system, consisting of a preferential market in wh ich the rate would be managed by the Bank of Uganda and a secondary market in wh ich the rate wou ld be determined at weekly auctions administered by the Bank of Uganda. The managed preferential rate for 10 On December 29 it was announced that w i th effect from January 1, 1983, the commercial rate would be depreciated from lei 15 to lei 16.5 per US$1 representing a devaluation of 9.1 percent. 16 the U .S. dollar opened at par w i th the previous official rate. On the basis of the preferential rate, the Uganda sh i l l ing depreciated by 18.3 percent against the U .S. dollar du r ing 1982. On Decem- ber 9 Zimbabwe devalued its dollar by 16.5 percent against the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency. India, which ma in ta ins the va lue of its currency w i th in 5 percent margins about a weighted basket of its major trading partners, changed the exchange rate of the rupee against its in terven t ion currency, the pound sterling, on numerous occasions dur ing 1982 for a cumu la t ive appreciation of 10.5 percent against the pound sterling and a cumu la t ive depreci- ation of 5.6 percent against the U .S. dollar. Countries tha t, in managing their exchange rates f lex ib ly ,11 changed the exchange rate of the ir currencies without strictly fo l low ing an explicit set of indicators effected the fo l low ing cumu la t ive rates of depreciation in 1982 against their interven- tion currency, the U .S. dollar: Iceland 50.8 per- cent; Korea 6.5 percent; and Turkey 28.4 percent. The cumulative depreciation of the Icelandic krona was achieved in part by discrete devaluations of 12 percent and 14.3 percent on Janua ry 14 and August 23, respectively, in terms of a trade- weighted exchange rate index. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar, wh ich since June 1979 had been adjusted against a basket of currencies on the basis of cost and price d i f fe ren t ia ls, was fixed in terms of its index on June 22 as part of an overall one-year freeze on wages and prices. During the course of 1982 the New Zealand dollar depreciated by 11.1 percent against the U .S. dollar, its interven- tion currency. Throughout 1982 Braz i l, Colombia, Peru, and Portugal adjusted the exchange rate of their currencies frequen t ly on the basis of a set of indicators; in addition, fo l low ing the realignment of the parities of the EMS currencies, Portugal on June 16 devalued the effective exchange rate of the escudo by 9.4 percent. The cumu la t ive rates of devaluation against the U .S. dollar of the currencies of the above countries during 1982 were as follows: Brazilian cruzeiro 49.4 percent; Colombian peso 16.0 percent; Peruvian sol 48.9 percent; and Portu- guese escudo 26.7 percent. The external va lue of the Chilean peso, wh ich since September 29 was maintained by intervention w i th in 2 percent mar- gins of a reference rate and adjusted daily by the Central Bank for an inflation d i f fe ren t ia l, depre- ciated by 46.1 percent against the U .S. dollar. 1' Changes in exchange rates in 1982 of currencies subject to "More Flexible" arrangements are shown in Table 4. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS Table 4. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Subject to "More Flexible" Arrangements1 (December 31, 1981-December 31, 1982) Currency Units per U .S. Dollar2 (End of Period) Dec. 31, 1981 Dec. 31, 1982 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/Depreciation ( — ) (in Terms of U .S. Dollars per Currency Unit) Argentina (peso) Australia (dollar) Brazil (cruzeiro) Chile (peso) Colombia (peso) Costa Rica (colon) Greece (drachma) Iceland (krona) India (rupee) Israel (shekel) Korea (won) Lebanon (pound) Mexico (peso) Morocco (dirham) New Zealand (dollar) Nigeria (naira) Pakistan (rupee) Peru (sol) Philippines (peso) Portugal (escudo) Sierra Leone (leone) Spain (peseta) Sri Lanka (rupee) South Africa (rand) Turkey (lire) Uganda (shilling) Uruguay (new peso) Western Samoa (tala) Yugoslavia (dinar) 7,248.0 .8866 127.48 39.0 59.07 36.09 57.63 8.173 9.099 15.6041 700.5 4.625 26.229 5.33335 1.213 .6369 9.9 506.17 8.2 65.249 1.174 97.45 20.55 .95657 133.623 85.15 11.594 1.099 41.823 48,545.0 1.0198 252.67 73.57 70.29 40.25 70.57 16.625 9.634 33.6500 748.8 3.81 96.48 6.26755 1.365 .6702 12.8478 989.67 9.171 89.064 1.233 125.601 21.32 1.074 186.75 104.3 33.950 1.237 62.487 -85.1 -13.1 -49.4 -50.0 -16.0 -10.3 -18.3 -50.8 -5.6 -53.6 -6.5 21.4 -72.8 -14.9 -11.1 -5.0 -22.9 -48.9 -10.5 -26.7 -4.8 -22.4 -3.6 -10.9 -28.5 -18.4 -65.9 -11.2 -33.1 1 The information presented in this table relates to those members not included in Table 3 whose arrangements are classified in the category "More Flexible" as of December 31, 1982. Exchange rates shown are midpoints of buy ing and selling rates. 2For those countries which maintain mu l t ip le rates, the rate shown is either that quoted by the authorities as the official rate or that used most widely in the coun try's international transactions. Several countries, aside from those noted above, that otherwise manage the float of the ir currencies, announced discrete changes in the external va lue of their currencies. In the first of several changes, Argentina, on May 5, changed the peso's exchange rate from $a 11,950 (buy ing) and $a 12,000 (selling) to $a 14,000 (buying) and $a 14,050 (selling), respectively, thereby effecting a devalua- tion of 14.6 percent against the U .S. dollar. Proceeds from unpromoted exports registered w i th customs prior to May 5 were to be surrendered at the exchange rate prevailing on May 4; however, other exports that had been declared to the National Grain Board prior to May 4 were to be surrendered at a rate communicated daily by the Central Bank. On Ju ly 5, the exchange market was split into a commercial and financial market. The commercial rate, which was to be announced daily by the Central Bank and to apply to all exports and imports registered with customs on or after Ju ly 6, was 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS initially set at $a 20,000 per US$1, representing a devaluation of 21 percent against the U .S. dollar compared with the official rate of $a 15,750 on Ju ly 5. The financial market rate was to be determined freely by supply and demand, and it was to apply to all permitted transactions not otherwise eligible for the commercial rate, with the exception of receipts from exports registered prior to Ju ly 6, for which special provisions were established. On September 13 it was established that henceforth 15 percent of both export proceeds and import payments were to be effected at the financial rate, with the balance to be transacted at the commercial rate; the "mixed" rate was changed on October 1 to 80 percent and 20 percent of the commercial and financial rates, respectively. On November 1 the commercial and financial markets were unified into a single official exchange market with an opening rate of $a 38,950 per US$1 (buying) and $a 39,000 per US$1 (selling). These opening rates represented a devaluation of 13.6 percent for trade-related transactions previously effected at the mixed rate established on October 1. The Argentine peso depreciated overall by 85.1 percent against the U .S. dollar. On June 15 Greece adjusted the drachma downward against the U .S. dollar by 3.2 percent, following the realignment within the EMS. During 1982 the Greek drachma depreciated by 13.8 percent and 18.3 percent against the SDR and the U .S. dollar, respectively. Mexico effected several changes in the exchange rate for the Mexican peso during the period under review. The Central Bank of Mexico announced on February 18 that it would withdraw temporarily from the foreign exchange market; on the fo l low ing day the midpoint exchange rate was Mex$37 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 27.3 percent from the closing midpoint rate for the U .S. dollar on February 17. On June 5 the Bank of Mexico announced that it would intervene again in the foreign exchange market in an effort to depreciate the peso at the rate of Mex$0.04 = US$1 a day. In early August the authorities announced that with effect from August 6 a dual exchange market was to be maintained. A preferential rate, to be supported and announced daily by the Bank of Mexico, was established for the public sector's foreign borrow- ing and debt service operations, interest payments on the public sector's external debt, certain priority import payments, and the proceeds from petroleum exports; a free rate was to be applicable to all other transactions. On the first day of operations, Au- gust 8, the peso closed at Mex$48.41 = US$1 in the preferential market and at Mex$75.77 per US$1 18 in the floating market, representing depreciations of 0.4 percent and 36.3 percent, respectively, against the closing U .S. dollar rate on August 5. On September 1 a generalized foreign exchange control system was announced. Under the system two fixed exchange rates were announced on September 6: (a) a preferential rate of Mex$50 = US$1, applicable principally to the foreign obligations of the public sector and domestic credit ins t i tu t ions, to the interest and principal payments for private sector obligations entered into prior to September, and to a broad spectrum of authorized imports; and (b) an ordinary rate of Mex$70 = US$1, applicable to all transactions not covered by the preferential rate. Relative to the preferential rate prevailing at the end of August, the new fixed preferential rate repre- sented a devaluation of 0.5 percent, whereas the fixed ordinary rate implied an appreciation of 42.9 percent relative to the last closing U .S. dollar rate in the free market. The fixed rate system was replaced, on December 10, by a dual market system consisting of (a) a controlled market through which would pass mainly transactions relating to the external debt, specified imports and nonexempt exports and in which the authorities would set and adjust the rate on a daily basis, and (b) a free market in which the rate would be determined by supply and demand, for all transactions not specific to the controlled market. The new system became opera- tive on December 20, on which day the controlled market rate was initially set at Mex$95 = US$1 (buying) and Mex$95.10 (selling), involving a depreciation of 26.4 percent in relation to the previous prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 — US$1. The free market rate on December 20 was approximately Mex$150 = US$1, representing a 53.3 percent depreciation against the ordinary U .S. dollar rate on the previous working day. On the basis of the controlled market rate, the Mexican peso depreciated by 72.8 percent against the U .S. dollar in 1982. On December 4 the authorities of Spain, in response to intense speculative pressure during the previous two months, devalued the peseta by 8 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar. During the year the peseta depreciated by 22.4 percent against the U .S. dollar and by 18.1 percent in terms of the SDR. Effective October 22, Yugo- slavia devalued the dinar by 16.7 percent against the U .S. dollar. During the year under review the dinar depreciated by 29.4 percent and 33.1 percent with respect to the SDR and U .S. dollar, respectively. A number of modifications were made by the countries that issue advance announcements of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS rates of change of the exchange rates of their currencies. The Central Bank of Chile announced that with effect from June 16 the exchange rate for the peso against a basket of currencies would be depreciated on a daily basis at a rate of 0.8 percent a month. This practice prevailed until August 5, when for a brief period until September 29, the exchange rate for the peso for most transactions was determined freely by market forces. On June 5 the Bank of Mexico expressed its intention of depre- ciating the peso at Mex$0.04 per US$1 a day. This policy, which stayed in place with respect to the managed preferential rate introduced on August 6, was discontinued with the announcement on Sep- tember 1 of the generalized foreign exchange control system. With effect from December 20, when the new dual exchange market system went into operation, the Central Bank of Mexico prean- nounced for periods of two weeks in advance the daily peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the con- trolled market; initially the exchange rate was adjusted at an annual rate of 50 percent, but the adjustment rate remained subject to modification depending on, among other factors, the expected inflation differential between Mexico and its main trading partners. Portugal, on June 16, reaffirmed its policy, announced in December 1981, of depre- ciating the escudo by 0.75 percent a month against its effective exchange rate. Uruguay, with effect from November 29, discontinued the system, first adopted in December 1978, of announcing ex- change rates in advance and replaced it with a floating exchange rate regime. During the year under review the new peso depreciated by 65.6 percent against the U .S. dollar. Appreciations of the external value of currencies occurred relatively infrequently in 1982. In setting an initial reference exchange rate of Ch$66 per US$1, Chile on September 29 marginally appre- ciated the peso by 1.3 percent against the average market rate for the U .S. dollar on the previous day. Maldives, which maintains the exchange rate of its currency within narrow margins about the U .S. dollar, revalued the market rate of the rufiyaa on March 31 by 6.4 percent against the U .S. dollar. On July 16, Paraguay set the free market exchange rate at <£ 160 = US$1; this new rate represented an appreciation of 21.9 percent in relation to the previous free exchange market rate of (fa 195 = US$1. On June 27, Sudan fixed the maximum buying and selling rates in the legalized free market at LSd 1.11 and 1.15 per US$1, respectively, thus appreciating the pound by 23.7 percent against the U .S. dollar in that market. Because virtually no transactions were effected at these rates, they were eliminated in August. Four members adjusted the currency baskets on which their exchange rates are based. In February Fiji adjusted the weights in its currency basket to reflect trade in services as well as in goods. On August 2, Norway, in making the first change since the currency basket for the determination of the exchange rate of the krone was introduced in 1978, added the Austrian schilling and the Canadian dollar to the basket and further revised the weights of the other component currencies to reflect both Norway's exports of manufactured goods to the countries involved and its competitive relationship with "third" countries. When Tanzania devalued in March, it also announced that henceforth the exchange rate of the shilling would be determined by a basket consisting of the currencies of Tan- zania's main trading partners; previously the ex- change rate had been based on daily SDR rate quotations. On December 9, Zimbabwe altered its currency basket to reflect trade rather than set- tlement patterns. Of the countries whose currencies are pegged to baskets, only one adjusted the margins around the peg. On October 10, Finland changed the fluctua- tion limits of its currency index; the upper and lower limits were revised from 119.0 to 127.5 and from 112.0 to 121.9 (1974 = 100), respectively, thereby reducing the permitted range of fluctuations of the Finnish markka against its basket from 6.0 percent to 4.5 percent. One member introduced a new currency. The Central Bank of Vanuatu on March 22 started to issue vatu notes to replace the existing currencies in circulation in Vanua tu, including the New Hebrides franc and the Australian dollar. During the period under review, several ex- change arrangement changes other than those al- ready noted were introduced. Argentina on April 5 temporarily suspended the sale of foreign exchange except to effect payments for imports and the servicing of the external debt. With effect from April 30 all external payments were made subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, but this requirement was liberalized somewhat during sub- sequent months. On November 11, and retroactive to January 1, the Monetary Authority of Belize was converted to a Central Bank. Bolivia on February 5 declared all transactions in the parallel exchange market to be illegal. The Central Bank of Kenya announced the suspension of all foreign exchange dealings on August 2, following developments a day earlier that had affected internal security. On 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS August 10 the Central Bank of Kenya resumed its normal foreign exchange operations and no change was made in the exchange rate at that time. In late January the rufiyaa was made the sole medium of exchange in Maldives, and local transactions in U .S. dollars, which had been prevalent, were banned. In the context of the generalized foreign exchange control system introduced on Septem- ber 1, foreign currency was declared illegal tender in Mexico, and henceforth all contracts were to be settled in Mexican pesos. On November 10 the Central Bank in Sri Lanka discontinued the quota- tion of buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, French franc, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, and the pound sterling; the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar continued to be determined by the Central Bank on a daily basis. There were several major developments in the exchange arrangements of member countries dur ing the first quarter of 1983. On March 21, 1983 the bilateral central rates, intervention limits, and cen- tral rates in terms of the ECU of the countries participating in the EMS were adjusted. It was the seventh realignment since the EMS was established in March 1979, and the first to have resulted in changes in the central rates for all of the EMS currencies. In terms of the ECU, the Irish pound (3.6 percent), French franc (2.6 percent), and the Italian lira (2.6 percent) showed the greatest depre- ciation; the deutsche mark (5.4 percent), the Netherlands guilder (3.4 percent), and the Danish krone (2.4 percent) experienced the largest appreci- ations. With the exception of the Danish krone, which appreciated by 0.5 percent, all the EMS currencies depreciated against the U .S. dollar, w i th the Irish pound (5.2 percent) and the French franc (4.6 percent) depreciating the most. During the quarter, three members notified the Fund of changes in their exchange arrangements invo lv ing reclassification under the Fund's classification scheme for exchange arrangements (Table 1). Ecuador, in conjunction with a 21.4 percent devalu- ation of the sucre against the U .S. dollar, an- nounced that with effect from March 23, 1983, the sucre would be depreciated by S/. 0.04 per US$1 each business day and that the scope of the official exchange market would be considerably enlarged; consequently, Ecuador's exchange arrangements were reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to the category "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating." The authorities of Indonesia notified the Fund that on March 30, 1983 the rupiah had been devalued by 27.6 percent against the U .S. dollar and that, in addition, the exchange rate 20 would be flexibly managed in order to meet unexpected external developments. To reflect this latter policy, the Indonesian rupiah has been reclas- sified within the "More Flexible" category from the subclassification "Flexibility Limited Against a Single Currency" to that of "Other Managed Float- ing." Mauritius announced that with effect from February 28, 1983 the Mauritian rupee was no longer pegged to the SDR but pegged instead to a composite of several currencies, reflecting mainly Mauritius' pattern of trade. On the basis of that notification, the Mauritian rupee has been reclas- sified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "Pegged: Other Composite." In addition to the above changes, there were several major de- valuations during the quarter ended March 31, 1983. Australia devalued its dollar by 10 percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies on March 7, 1983. Following the devaluation of the Australian dollar, both the New Zealand dollar and the Papua New Guinea kina were devalued, by 8.3 percent and 10 percent, respectively, against the U .S. dollar on March 8, 1983. Brazil, in the context of a comprehensive economic adjustment program, devalued the cruzeiro by 23.1 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar on February 21, 1983. Effective January 5, 1983 the Central Bank of Iceland announced a 9 percent devaluation of the krona against the trade-weighted exchange rate index to which it is pegged. Greece devalued the drachma by 15.5 percent against the U . S. dollar with effect on January 9, 1983. The middle rate of the Malagasy franc was changed from MFG 375.27 = US$1 on January 28, 1983 to MFG 397.42 = US$1 on January 31, 1983, representing a 5.6 percent depreciation against the U .S. dollar. On February 28, 1983 Venezuela adopted a mu l t ip le exchange rate system following the closure of the official market from February 21 through March 4, 1983. The new system introduced the fo l low ing three markets: (1) a market in which the previous exchange rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 would be used for receipts from oil exports and payments for essential imports and for external pub l ic debt; (2) a market in which an exchange rate of Bs 6.0 = US$1 would be used for some revenues from state enterprises, imports of raw materials, and inter- mediate goods; this represented a depreciation of 28.3 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar; and (3) a market in which a managed floating exchange rate is used for tourism, private transfers, and capital flows. Western Samoa devalued the tala by 10 percent in terms of the New Zealand dollar, with effect from February 7, 1983. Following the ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES change rate adjustments in the South Pacific region on March 8, 1983, the mid-rate for the Western Samoan tala against the New Zealand dollar was left unchanged, with the result being that the tala depreciated by a further 8.3 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar. Subsequent to the closure of foreign exchange operations between January 7-9, 1983, the Bank of Zambia devalued the kwacha by 20 percent in terms of the SDR to which the kwacha is pegged. In other developments, Chile announced that, with effect from March 23, 1983, the reference rate of the Chilean peso would be adjusted on the basis of the domestic inflation rate only and not, as was previously the case, on the basis of the difference between the average rate of change of the domestic consumer price index and an estimate of the world inflation rate. Fiji, subsequent to the devaluations of both the Australian and New Zealand dollars, did not adjust the exchange rate of its dollar against the weighted basket of currencies to which it is pegged; as a result, on March 8, 1983, the Fiji dollar appreciated by 2.7 percent in terms of the U .S. dollar. Following the realignment of the EMS currencies, Portugal announced, on March 28, 1983, a 2 percent downward adjustment in the effective exchange rate of the escudo and an increase in its crawling peg depreciation from 0.75 percent to 1 percent a month. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments The decline in economic activity and the associ- ated rise in unemployment in industrial countries in 1982 further increased tensions among trading partners and intensified pressures for the adoption of protectionist measures to counter imports. As in previous years, these restrictions were concentrated in specific sectors that were marked by cyclical and structural difficulties, such as the automobile, steel, textiles, and agricultural sectors. Several countries attempted to head off generalized measures in the trade field by resorting to bilateral measures. The adoption of these measures was, in the main, motivated by imbalances in bilateral trade and maladjusted exchange rates. The main objective of international trade policies affecting agricultural goods in 1982 continued to be support for producers' incomes through a variety of measures including import quotas, tar iffs, variable import levies12 and export subsidies; practices in this sector continued to deviate markedly from the principle of free trade. The average level of protection for agriculture in industrial countries is estimated to be over three times that for manufac- turing. In addition to restrictions maintained by individual countries or agreed bilaterally, interna- tional agreements regulated trade in sugar, coffee, dairy products, grains, and meat. In 1982, although some quantitative restrictions on agricultural goods were liberalized, bilateral trade agreements became 12 A variable import levy is a charge on imports imposed to raise the price of a commodity on the world market to the higher internal price. an increasing phenomenon in this sector. Recourse to subsidies on exports of agricultural goods, the primary purpose of which is to allow domestic producers to obtain for their exports the same high price they obtain for sales in the domestic market, where prices are set by the government, was a source of concern. Consistent w i th these ar- rangements, in May 1982 the EC Council approved increases in guaranteed common agricultural prices for producers, in the face of declining world market prices. In developing countries, measures to restrict imports and current payments have increasingly been the response to severe balance of payments problems. In 1982, prices for primary commodity exports of non-oil developing countries were at their lowest levels of the postwar period; for many countries not only was the burden of external debt servicing very heavy, but they were also con- fronted with weak export markets. In addition, the weakening of the international oil market since 1981 has contributed to the substantial pressure on the payments and reserve positions of several oil exporting developing countries —prompting them to adopt more restrictive exchange and trade policies. Against this background of intensifying protec- tionist pressures, the GATT held a ministerial level meeting in November 1982—the first since the 1973 meeting that launched the Tokyo Round of Trade Negotiations. The Ministers recognized that "protectionist pressures on governments have multiplied, disregard of GATT disciplines has increased, and certain shortcomings in the func- tioning of the GATT system have been accen- 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tuated" and decided to overcome these threats to the system. While the ministerial declaration does not include a specific commitment to liberalize trade, the Contracting Parties undertook "to make deter- mined efforts to ensure that trade policies and measures are consistent with GATT principles and rules and to resist protectionist pressures in the formulation and implementation of national trade policy and in proposing legislation and also to refrain from taking or maintaining any measures inconsistent with GATT and to make determined efforts to avoid measures which would l im it or distort international trade." In addition, a detailed work program to be pursued under GATT auspices was agreed during the meetings. Quantitative Import Controls The Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) regulating international trade in textiles was extended for a second time, for a period of four years and seven months, from January 1, 1982 to Ju ly 31, 1986. The text of the original arrangement was not changed, but the protocol extending the ar- rangement contained understandings reached in the Textiles Committee that fur ther restricted interna- tional trade. In essence, the understandings in- cluded provisions for "dominant suppliers," with stricter terms of access to markets applied to these countries than to other developing countries that export textiles and clothing products.13 The under- standings also included special terms for new entrant, small-supplier, and cotton-producing coun- tries. Although safeguard measures could be in- voked by importing countries if a market disruption or a real risk of disruption existed, difficulties had arisen in the past in the application of the concept of market disruption, and it was therefore stressed in renewing the agreement that the procedures for the settlement of disputes foreseen in the MFA would have to be fu l ly adhered to. The Committee a l s o> agreed on various understandings regarding proce- dures to deal with f raud, circumvention of the agreement, linkages between adjustment policies and measures involving textile production, and the overall surveillance of the func t ion ing of the MFA. Following the satisfactory conclusion of new bilateral agreements, the EC accepted the new protocol of the extension of the MFA. Negotiations on these bilateral agreements took place throughout 1982, and agreements have been concluded with 26 13While not explicitly defined, the concept of "dominant suppliers" includes Hong Kong and Korea. 22 countries and areas.14 In addition, dur ing 1982 the EC concluded preferential arrangements inc lud ing trade in textiles, with Cyprus, Egypt, Malta, Morocco, Portugal, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. The bilateral arrangements maintained by Canada under the MFA expired at the end of 1981. For the 1982—86 period, agreements have been negotiated with 15 MFA signatories (Czechoslovakia, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Singa- pore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Uruguay) and with certain non-MFA signatories, inc lud ing Bulgaria and the People's Republic of China. These ar- rangements permit some relaxation of import re- straints, allowing an overall growth rate of 4 percent a year for all countries' exports compared with an overall growth of 3.3 percent in the pre- 1982 arrangements. The United States had negotiated in 1981 various bilateral agreements that were due to expire in 1982; countries and areas with which agreements were renegotiated in 1982 in- cluded Brazil, Colombia, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Pakistan, Philippines, and Singapore. The United States imposed import re- straints on certain wool products originating in Maldives for one year starting September 29, 1982. In January 1982, Australia introduced a new seven- year program that would liberalize trade in textiles, clothing, and footwear, with some increased flexi- bility in the quota system and w i th provisions for an increase in imports which would be determined by the application of a quota expansion factor (averag- ing about 2 percent a year of 1979-80 imports) and a market growth factor. In Augus t, Austria and Thailand concluded an agreement under wh ich only shirts and blouses from Thailand accompanied by certificates of origin could be imported into Austria. During 1982 international trade in steel and steel products continued to be subject to comprehensive impediments in major industrial countries. EC imports were subject to either bilateral ar- rangements or to price undertakings according to whether or not the EC had concluded arrangements with supplier countries. The EC extended through 1982 existing arrangements with 13 supplier coun- tries and concluded an additional arrangement w i th Korea; the permissible import quantities in 1982 were higher than in 1981 but were 9 percent below l4The countries and areas are Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Guatemala, Ha i t i, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ind ia, Indonesia, Korea, Macao, Ma lays ia, Mexico, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Roman ia, Singa- pore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, U ruguay, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES their 1980 level. Imports from countries with which there were no bilateral arrangements could be subject to antidumping actions if sold at prices below basic import prices set by the EC. The EC's surveillance of steel and steel products imports introduced in 1981 was extended un t il Decem- ber 31, 1982. New basic import prices for these products provided for increases from January 1, 1982 averaging 7 percent for bulk steel products, 10 percent for special steel, and 5.5 percent for pig iron and ferromanganese. The United Kingdom imposed restrictions on imports of certain iron and steel products from Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia that were previously covered by voluntary restraint arrangements; quotas on certain textile goods from the People's Republic of China and Macao were also imposed. After the expiration of the bilateral agreement with the People's Republic of China in December 1982, the United States introduced unila- teral quantitative restrictions in January 1983, limiting imports of certain textile and apparel items from that country, to be in effect during negotia- tions of a new bilateral agreement with the People's Republic of China. In the United States, pressure to limit foreign competition perceived as unfa ir by domestic producers intensified. In June 1982 the U .S. Department of Commerce reached a prelimi- nary decision to levy offsetting penalties on steel imports from nine countries, including seven EC countries. Agreement was reached on October 21, 1982 between the United States and the EC to limit the EC's exports of ten categories of steel to the United States until the end of 1985 to 5 .12 percent of the U .S. market, in exchange for the withdrawal of the trade complaints by the U .S. steel industry. Trade frictions in the specialty steel sector also persisted. Investigations on five specialty steel products (stainless steel bar, rod, plate, sheets, and strip and alloy tool steel) that had been initiated in February and August 1982 have not yet been concluded, except for investigations of imports from Brazil, which did not result in quantitative restrictions. Simultaneously, the United States initi- ated discussions with trading partners aimed at the elimination of all trade distorting practices in the specialty steel sector and started to monitor imports of specialty steel products. International trade of automobiles continued to be highly regulated in 1982. Japan agreed in April to extend for a second year its restraint agreement with the United States, by which shipments of passenger cars into the United States would be limited to the level (1.68 million un i ts) agreed for the period April 1981-March 1982. In February 1983, Japan agreed to continue to restrain auto- mobile imports into the United States at 1.68 million units for a third year starting April 1, 1983. A similar agreement was concluded in May between Canada and Japan by which shipments of passenger cars into Canada for the period April 1- December 31, 1982 would be limited to 120,000 units, some 20,000 units less than in the compara- ble period in 1981. Restrictions on imports of items other than textiles, steel, and automobiles were introduced by several industrial countries. Canada introduced a global quota on imports of leather footwear for the period July 9, 1982 to November 30, 1984. This action was taken pursuant to Article XIX of the GATT on the basis of a finding by the Canadian Antidumping Tribunal that increased imports of footwear were causing or threatening serious injury to Canadian footwear producers. Shoes and boots of higher unit values were excluded at the end of 1982 from the global quota. A three-year joint discipline arrangement between the EC and Austria on mutual trade in cheeses entered into force on January 1, 1982. The EC also concluded agree- ments with Brazil, Indonesia, and Thailand, lim- iting imports of manioc from these countries. In February 1983, Japan informed the EC that its exports to the EC of videotape recorders and large color television tubes would not exceed 4.55 million units and 900,000 units, respectively, in 1983, and that it would exercise restraint on shipments of certain machine tools, automobiles, and color television sets, and would consult, if necessary, on shipments of light commercial vehi- cles, forklift trucks, motorcycles, color television sets, audio equipment, and quartz watches to the EC. France excluded various items from EC treat- ment (which permits free circulation of imported goods inside the Community once they have entered any member country) for a limited period. These items included radio receivers, umbrellas and sunshades, and quartz watches from Hong Kong, tents from the Republic of Korea, color television sets from Japan, and toys from Japan, Hong Kong, and the Republic of Korea. In addition, the impor- tation of Italian wines for the French market and various textile and wood goods from Turkey were suspended temporarily. In addition, customs for- malities for the importation of videotape recorders were localized at the customs office of Poitiers during October 1982-April 1983. France in Octo- ber also increased controls on commercial practices and revised customs procedures and in December instituted special hygienic controls for imports of 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS animal-based food products. The United Kingdom and several other countries in April prohibited importation of goods from Argentina. In February the United States extended through February 1984 quantitative limitations on the importation of clothespins, and in March crude oil imports from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya were banned on grounds of national security. In May the United States imposed quotas and raised fees on imports of certain sugars, syrups, and molasses because these imports interfered with the operation of the do- mestic sugar price support program. As a means of avoiding the imposition of formal import quotas, the United States concluded restraint agreements on meat with Australia, Canada, and New Zealand until the end of 1983. Among the industrial countries, only Japan con- tinued to make progress in further opening its domestic market. In January 1982 the Government announced a package of measures to further ease and simplify import testing and other import proce- dures in order to improve access for foreign goods to the domestic market. The package included the improvement of 67 import-related measures on a wide range of products, including motor vehicles, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, electric appliances, farm implements, sporting goods, chemicals, and food additives. In May 1982 and again in January 1983 the Government announced other trade liberalization packages, which included increased import quotas for agricultural products, an increase in the number of outlets available for the handling of tobacco products, acceptance of foreign testing results, clearer and more specific standards for imports, and simplification of import-testing procedures. Developments in the international oil market and the emergence of balance of payments difficulties led to the introduction and intensification of im- port restrictions in several oil-exporting countries. Algeria alone eased quantitative restrictions, allowing without authorization and up to a certain amount, imports for repair and maintenance of equipment and of spare parts. In January the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya reduced foreign exchange alloca- tions for certain imports by up to 50 percent and eliminated allocations for others; imports of further items were banned during the year. In April Nigeria added three items to the prohibited list and 29 other items, mostly manufactured goods, to the list of imports subject to import licensing. All imports above a certain value were subjected to a preship- ment import surveillance scheme. In June the issuance of import licenses was restricted to goods 24 that could not be obtained domestically in Nigeria. In September import procedures for a number of commodities were tightened and the number of agencies in Nigeria banned from importing goods was increased. Several non-oil developing countries continued to rationalize and simplify their import regimes and to reduce import restrictions. Bangladesh in- troduced various changes in the import system that on balance represented a liberalization; the most important of these were the substitution of annual for semiannual licenses for some industrial import- ters, the lengthening of the period of validity of import entitlement certificates, the authorization for commercial banks to extend the validity of import licensing or letters of credit, the expansion of the list of items importable under the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing Schemes, and the permissibility of deferred pay- ments for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme. In March Brazil introduced permission for the importation of almost 50 items or groups of items that had been prohibited since January 1977. Ecuador eliminated restrictions on imports of fruits and liquor that previously had been permitted only under barter agreements. In November Haiti lifted the import prohibitions imposed on April 9, 1981 and modified the import tariffs on some products. After subjecting several primary products to quan- titative restrictions and all import licenses to indi- vidual approval in September, Hungary simplified import licensing procedures in January 1983. Up to specified quarterly limits, imports other than capital goods were exempted from the requirement that approval be obtained for each individual license. In April India adopted a package of import liberaliza- tion measures that included the transfer of a number of items to less restrictive import licensing categories; an increase of 10 percent over and above consumption in any of the two preceding years for automatic licenses for 1982/83; the introduction of a repeat license facility; permission to import otherwise prohibited capital goods if such goods would reduce production costs by at least 10 percent; and permission to import certain goods up to certain limits without the usual clearance proce- dures. At the same time, India introduced more liberal special provisions for export-oriented pro- ducers. In January 1983, Jamaica replaced import licenses by import permits that were freely issued up to specified amounts for goods not on the restricted list. Morocco transferred a number of import items to less restricted lists, including raw materials, capital goods, and consumer goods. In ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES July, Pakistan liberalized its import system substan- tially by shifting many commodities to the free list, increasing import quotas for commercial importers, and removing licensing requirements for certain goods. In February the Philippines authorized com- mercial banks to sell foreign exchange for payment of imports of certain nonessential and unclassified consumer goods with prior approval of the Central Bank and exempted from certain documentation requirements imports for which no foreign ex- change payment was due. Portugal raised the limit for exemption from prior registration for imports of newspapers and periodicals. Sudan allowed certain commodities to be financed in the legal free foreign exchange market. Thailand allowed free importa- tion of jute fiber and small compressors and accessories for refrigerating equipment, provided that these were used in final products for re- exportation. In January Tunisia issued a revised list of liberalized imports and eliminated requirements for certain import documentation for imports from French franc zone countries. Turkey transferred a number of commodities to less restricted import lists. Import licenses were issued freely by Uganda for all nonprohibited imports effective from late August. The Bahamas and Guyana also lifted licensing requirements for certain imports. The generally difficult balance of payments situation of the non-oil developing countries led many of them to tighten quantitative import restric- tions. Argentina imposed licensing requirements for imports from Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and other members of the EC in April. Importation of most consumer goods, representing 10-15 percent of total imports, was also effectively banned. In July Argentina established U .S. dollar limits for imports; separate limits were established for imports in each customs category for each importer. The system of U.S. dollar limits on imports was abolished in October, but the ban on consumer goods was extended to March 31, 1983. In November Bolivia banned the importation of some 600 products considered nonessential or produced domestically. Products covered by the agreements signed within the Latin American Inte- gration Association (LAIA)15 were exempt from this prohibition. In September Brazil banned the importation of a wide range of items manufactured nationally or considered superfluous, including industrial machinery, components and replacement 15The members are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. parts, as well as raw materials for the chemical, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical industries. The People's Republic of China restricted imports of motor vehicles, television sets, cassette tape record- ers, digital wristwatches, refrigerators, cameras, and certain other consumer goods. Colombia inten- sified import restrictions, especially during the second half of 1982. License requirements were imposed on more than 510 tariff items that pre- viously could be imported freely. Furthermore, the enterprises in the fields of exploration, exploitation, or transformation of mineral products, with certain exceptions, were required to obtain licenses for their imports every six months. The Dominican Republic in August suspended imports of certain agricultural goods, construction equipment, house- hold electronic products, automobiles and trucks for a period of one year and imports of women's clothing for an indefinite period. In November the Dominican Republic set quotas for 1983 imports of raw materials and consumer goods to be paid with foreign exchange provided by the central bank equivalent to 45 percent of the average value of these imports during 1979 and 1980. Quotas for imports of medicines, raw materials for the phar- maceutical industry, and infant food were set at their 1982 levels. In November Ecuador prohibited the importation of a number of items representing 25 percent of the total value of imports. Egypt expanded the list of goods whose importation is subject to approval by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and enlarged the functions of the Import Rationalization Committee. In November Guatemala published a list of those products that were made subject to prior import licensing. Malta introduced a ban on the import of Japanese goods and goods that could be produced domestically. In early 1983 Lebanon also introduced several mea- sures to prevent such exports. In September Mexico imposed prior licensing requirements for all im- ports; however, in December requirements for certain imports were lifted. Peru subjected various goods to prior import licensing, including several iron and steel products, nuclear raw materials and components, and accessories for nuclear reactors. The Philippines increased the list of import items subject to prior approval or certification and pro- hibited the importation of certain agricultural goods. In January, Sudan banned imports of textiles and yarns, passenger cars and pickups, canned food, plastic products, household appliances, sta- tionery, tires, sweets, and certain other goods. Suriname tightened the import regime in January by prohibiting imports of certain consumer goods, 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS imposing quotas on imports of certain garments, and expanding the list of goods to be imported by the public central import service. In February Thailand imposed licensing requirements on all trade with South Africa. Licensing was also re- quired for imports of a few selected goods, and restrictions were imposed on imports of oil plant products, fishmeal, and single-cylinder diesel engines. In November Tunisia banned certain im- port items and imposed quotas on a number of food and beverage products. Venezuela, as part of a general tightening of the import system, prohibited imports of some 200 agricultural and industrial products in November. At the same time, the government became the sole importer of some items, and tariffs were raised on others. In October Yugoslavia limited the importation of personal belongings and gifts by Yugoslav nationals return- ing from abroad and prohibited direct importation by residents for household needs. Exceptions con- tinued to apply to holders of foreign exchange accounts and for Yugoslav workers employed abroad. On a more selective basis, certain imports were banned in Ethiopia and Nepal and subjected to import licensing requirements in Dominica, Fiji, Haiti, Honduras, and Sri Lanka. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation There were few major actions relating directly to the use of across-the-board surcharges and similar measures during 1982, compared with previous years. Israel introduced in June a 3 percent addi- tional ad valorem duty on all imports subject to the value-added tax, which would remain in effect until April 1, 1983. Grenada increased the stamp duty on imports by 2.5 percentage points in January and in March introduced an import surcharge on goods subject to stamp duty at a rate of 2 percent of their c .i .f. value. In late 1982 the stamp duty was raised further by 5 percentage points, to 17.5 percent. In its 1982 budget, Morocco announced a specific stamp duty on all imports above a certain value. Pakistan imposed an across-the-board import sur- charge of 5 percent on all imports in Ju ly, and customs duties were lowered on 11 items and raised on 13 other items. In February South Africa imposed a 10 percent surcharge on imports other than petroleum products, products subject to GATT bindings, and imports for government use; in December 1982 this surcharge rate was reduced to 7.5 percent, and to 5.0 percent in February 1983. During 1982 Thailand increased the items that were subject to import surcharges and increased rates on 26 already existing surcharges for various com- modities. From June to November, Uruguay im- posed a 10 percent tariff surcharge on all imports. Import surcharges on limited categories of goods were introduced in Djibouti, Hungary, and Turkey. In the area of import taxation, preference-giving countries made further concessions under the Gen- eralized System of Preferences (GSP), albeit mod- est ones, in their tariffs applied to imports from developing countries. These concessions, espe- cially to least developed countries, included addi- tions to the beneficiary lists, expansion of product coverage, and deeper tariff cuts. The Austrian Customs Preference Act 1982, which covers the second ten-year period of the GSP in that country, provides for a special tariff treatment for imports from 31 least developed countries. For industrial products originating in least developed countries, duty-free treatment is granted across the board, with the exception of textiles, for which a 50 percent tariff cut is applied. Spain and Greece ceased to be beneficiaries under the Austrian GSP system, and Portugal and Turkey were reclassified with the majority of the preference-receiving coun- tries. Certain products were also added to the Austrian GSP scheme, and preferential tariff treat- ment for other products was improved. At the beginning of 1982 Canada reduced most-favored- nation (MFN) tariffs in line with the schedule agreed in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN); at that time proportionate reductions were also made in many GSP rates for developing countries. The EC's GSP, which was introduced for a ten-year period in January 1981, remained in effect during 1982. At the end of 1982 some minor changes in product coverage and quotas were made to the EC scheme for 1983, in favor of the least developed countries. As in 1982, the list of ben- eficiaries for 1983 contains 125 countries, but Togo and Sierra Leone were added to the list of least developed countries. The People's Republic of China and Romania continue to benefit from GSP preferences under special arrangements for a some- what broader range of products. Some amendments were made to Finland's GSP scheme, effective September 1, by which Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, and Vanuatu were included in the list of beneficiary countries and Guinea-Bissau was trans- ferred to the list of least developed countries. Certain products were added to the list of products eligible for GSP preferences, along with coffee imported from least developed countries. On April 1, when Japan effected across-the-board tariff reductions on a large number of items two years ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES ahead of the schedule agreed on during the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, GSP rates that had been higher than reduced MFN rates were reduced to the level of MFN duties. In October GSP rate reductions were made in step with the two-year advanced implementation of Tokyo Round MFN concessions. Furthermore, ceilings for GSP entry were increased by 6.75 percent in the fiscal year 1981/82. With the inclu- sion of Guinea-Bissau, a total of 30 countries are accorded special preferential treatment as least developing countries under the Japanese GSP sys- tem. Imports by Norway of textile apparels and of certain engines for motor vehicles became eligible for GSP treatment in October. In October 1981 Switzerland extended the scheme of tariff prefer- ences for a ten-year period beginning 1982. An amendment envisages the possibility of adapting preferential treatment to the conditions prevailing in a preference-receiving country. With effect from March, imports of certain industrial products from the 31 least developed countries were permitted to enter Switzerland duty free. Duty-free treatment was also accorded for 48 agricultural products, of which 24 had not been part of the Swiss scheme of preferences. The margin of preferences was in- creased on a few products from certain countries. Since January 1982 the United States added 77 new products to the eligible list for the GSP and has extended cumulative treatment under the GSP to the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM).16 Also, pursuant to a procedure referred to as "graduation" introduced by the United States in 1981, by which GSP eligibility could be withdrawn selectively from certain countries and areas on a product-by-product basis, Brazil, Hong Kong, Israel, Republic of Korea, Mexico, and Singapore were removed from eligibility on certain products. In April 1982 Hun- gary extended its general duty-free treatment of imports from the least developed countries to imports from Guinea-Bissau. With regard to generalized tariff measures, Japan put into effect various measures during 1982 to reduce tariff barriers to foreign goods. With effect from April 1, tariffs on 1,653 items were reduced across the board, two years ahead of the schedule 16 Cumulative treatment allows two or more member coun- tries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the value added of the product in question originate in the beneficiary country. The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. agreed upon during the Tokyo Round of Multila- teral Trade Negotiations. The average tariff rate for these items was reduced to 6.75 percent in fiscal year 1981/82 from 8 percent in the previous year. In May the Japanese Government announced an eight- point trade liberalization package, which included the decision to abolish import tariffs on 97 indus- trial items as of April 1983, and to lower them on an additional 131 items, of which 17 were agricul- tural. The products covered by the above tariff actions were equivalent to 9.0 percent of the total value of Japan's imports of dutiable goods (exclud- ing petroleum) in 1981. On January 13, 1983 the Japanese Government announced another package of market liberalization measures to become effec- tive as of April 1, 1983. Among the measures announced were the reductions of tariffs on bis- cuits, chocolates, 8 tobacco products, 16 manufac- tured products, and 46 agricultural goods and the elimination of tariffs on 12 manufactured products and 1 category of agricultural goods. Among other industrial countries, Iceland reduced or abolished customs duties and special excise taxes on a wide range of products during the first half of 1982, including various inputs for import competing industries; in August a number of commodities became subject to the special excise tax, and the rates of the special import tax on automobiles were raised. Several non-oil developing countries lowered their import tariffs, mostly on a selective basis. In May Argentina reduced import duties 1-5 percent- age points depending upon the initial duty level. Brazil granted customs duty exemptions or reduc- tions, including many reductions to zero rates, for various imported goods throughout 1982; the reduc- tions or exemptions were often restricted to certain purposes or end users and were granted on a temporary basis. In certain instances, reduced rates were subject to tying arrangements whereby a minimum quantity of domestic products was re- quired to be purchased along with the imported product. Whenever quotas limited the access to preferential rates or exemptions, preference was, at times, to be given to imports from member coun- tries of the LAI A. Furthermore, the rate of the tax on financial operations was reduced to zero for imports of soybeans and unrefined soybean oil. The People's Republic of China changed the import duties on 149 items in January. As a result, duties were reduced on imports of rubber, timber, leather, pulp, paper, raw materials for the energy industry, machinery and equipment and parts for the light and textile industries, but were raised on imports of 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS certain machinery and equipment items produced in the People's Republic of China. Colombia ex- empted certain goods from tariffs and reduced import duties on a wide range of products. In addition, duties on imports of specified products from Peru and Venezuela were reduced according to a schedule leading to elimination of duties by 1984. India reduced import duties on a wide range of goods, including certain metals, raw materials, machinery, synthetic fibers, and exempted from duty imports of certain specified drugs, fertilizers, pig iron, and goods imported in connection with offshore oil exploration or exploitation. Indonesia granted a partial exemption from import duties and import sales taxes for various goods and expanded the list of imports eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the ASEAN agreement. Mexico announced in March a program to reduce import duties for some 1,500 items ranging from raw materials, intermediate goods, and capital goods to certain basic commodities of general consumption. In December import duties on items financed in the controlled exchange market were reduced by 10 percentage points. In November Peru exempted a number of agricultural inputs from import tariffs. Tunisia exempted from import duties certain prod- ucts for investment projects and reduced the duties on several other items in June. In November Uganda reduced the import duties on a wide range of goods by between 30 percent and 50 percent. Effective January 1, 1983, Uruguay took substantial measures to liberalize the trade system. The highest import duty rate was lowered from 75 percent to 55 percent, and the number of different import duty rates was reduced. With the aim of improving efficiency in domestic industry, the minimum im- port prices maintained by Uruguay's central bank were eliminated; import reference prices have since been maintained or established only as antidumping devices. As already mentioned, the special 10 percent export rebate-import surcharge, introduced in mid-1982, was eliminated at the same time. Selective taxes on imports were also eliminated in Singapore and the Yemen Arab Republic. Several non-oil developing countries imposed new or raised existing taxes or duties on imports. Chile increased specific duties on dairy products, twice during the course of 1982, and in November increased tariffs temporarily by an average of 17 points on 12 other products. Djibouti extended the 5 percent tax levied on the c.i.f. value of most goods other than food or beverages originating in non-EC countries to imports of these goods from EC countries. In March Greece raised taxes on im- 28 ported consumer goods. In April India increased the rates of the auxiliary customs duty on all imported goods, with certain exceptions, by 5 percent. Moreover, duties were increased substantially dur- ing 1982 on a wide range of goods, including cement, electronic items, and iron and steel. India withdrew Commonwealth preferences from a num- ber of countries, excluding Mauritius, Seychelles, and Tonga. Ivory Coast increased the value-added tax on imports; the increases ranged between 4.5 percent and 6.4 percent. Haiti imposed a sales tax of 7 percent on all imports, with minor exceptions. In January Peru replaced the sales and services tax on imports by a uniform value-added tax of 16 percent on the c . i .f. value of imports (in addition to the import duty). Simultaneously, a selective con- sumption tax was levied on luxury items, ranging from 10 percent to 40 percent of the c . i . f. value. Other selective increases in import duties were effected in Belize, Colombia, the People's Re- public of China, Malaysia, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia. Among oil-exporting countries, Nigeria in- troduced new or higher rates of import duties for 42 groups of items. In addition, user concession duties were introduced for rubberized textile fabrics, completely knocked down components, generators and certain engines, and a 500 percent ad valorem duty was imposed on passenger cars, which were taken off the prohibited list. In November Qatar raised the import duty on tobacco and cigarettes from 10 percent to 30 percent. Other member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Bah- rain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) also announced subsequently that they would take similar measures. Saudi Arabia in July imposed a duty on imports of lubricating oils at the rate of 20 percent for three years. The United Arab Emirates subjected all imports into Dubai and Sharjah to a customs duty of 1 percent of the c . i .f. value. As part of a general revision of the import tariff system, Venezuela in June lowered duties on about 550 tariff items by up to 95 percent and raised them on more than 300 other tariff items by an average of over 30 percentage points. Advance Import Deposits In 1982 the reliance of Fund members on advance import deposit schemes decreased further. Nine countries eliminated or reduced the scope of their schemes, and one country (Kenya) announced the intention to terminate the scheme as of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES January 31, 1983. Four countries introduced or expanded their existing schemes. In February and May Colombia reduced the rate of the advance import deposit requirement from 35 percent to 10 percent. In February the rate of the advance exchange license deposit was also reduced from 95 percent to 80 percent. In January Greece reduced the rates for advanced import deposits for specified imports by a third, to one half of the level prevailing before January 1, 1981. In February Italy abolished the advance import deposit requirement introduced in May 1981. Kenya announced in December that the remaining advance import de- posit requirements would be abolished as of Jan- uary 31, 1983. In February and March Morocco reduced the number of products subject to a 25 percent advance import deposit requirement. Paki- stan, in January exempted raw materials used by the iron, steel, and shipbreaking industries from a 25 percent margin requirement against import letters of credit. In February the Philippines modified the rate schedule of its 100 percent margin deposits on import letters of credit, as follows: the deposit fate would be 90 percent for letters of credit opened on or after March 1; 80 percent if opened after April 1; 70 percent if opened after May 1; 60 percent if opened after June 1; and 50 percent if opened after July 1. In October the Syrian Arab Republic reduced the rate of the advance import deposit requirement applicable to foodstuff, raw materials, and pharmaceutical chemical products from 25 percent to 10 percent. Turkey reduced the rate of the import guarantee deposit requirement for certain types of fertilizer, pesticides, and wheat from 10 percent to 1 percent in January. Uganda, in Octo- ber, suspended its 5 percent advance import deposit requirement. Advance import deposit requirements were in- troduced by four countries and tightened in one, Ecuador. In Egypt, importers were required with effect from March to lodge with the commercial banks non-interest-bearing deposits in convertible foreign exchange ranging from 25 percent to 100 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports at the time of opening of letters of credit. In January Iceland reintroduced for one year the 35 percent advance deposit requirement on furniture imports, which had previously been abolished in December 1980; deposits were required to be held in interest-bearing blocked accounts for 90 days prior to importation. In May Honduras introduced a 100 percent guaran- tee deposit requirement against sight letters of credit. Nigeria introduced, in April, an advance import deposit requirement ranging from 25 percent to 250 percent, as follows: 25 percent for raw materials and spare parts; 50 percent for books, food (excluding rice), medicaments, building mate- rials, and capital goods; 200 percent for motor vehicles other than automobiles; and 250 percent for automobiles and other goods. In October Ecuador tightened the advance import deposit re- quirement by subjecting certain categories of im- ports to the 20 percent requirement and by raising the rates on others. As a result of the changes, the range of deposit requirements rose from 15-50 percent to 20-80 percent of the c . i .f. value of imports; the terms of deposits remained unchanged at 180-270 days. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments During 1982 regulations governing the terms of or the procedures for import payments were mod- ified in a number of countries. On balance, most of the changes involved the tightening of the terms of, or the procedures for, import payments. In November Bolivia required that all import payments be covered by letters of credit. In October Brazil tightened the minimum payment terms for imports with exchange cover, as follows: (a) from seven to eight years for payments for imports of machinery and equipment in excess of US$1 mil- lion and less than US$5 million; (b) from 180 days to one year for import payments for industrial durable consumer goods; and (c) a maximum of 10 percent of import value as down payments for all imports. Chile, in April, reduced the maximum terms for import payments from 90 days to 45 days and in July eliminated the maximum terms. Ecuador, in October, announced a requirement that at least 80 percent of the f.o.b. value of capital goods imports be financed with credits having maturities of at least 360 days, and in November fixed the minimum financing period for imports of spare parts and tools at 180 days. In November Greece restricted purchases of foreign exchange by importers to within four days prior to the date of payment. In April Hungary ceased to grant waivers to importers in respect of the domestic currency deposits for import payments and made more restrictive the extension of short-term credits by the National Bank to finance the borrowed portion of these deposits. In April Indonesia required that public sector imports be shipped by vessels oper- ated by companies owned by Indonesians. Italy, in April, prohibited prepayments for imports of goods and services before the contractual due date and 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS reduced from 30 days to 15 days the period for using foreign currencies purchased in advance of import transactions. In September Mexico required that all payments for imports originating in Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia be made through set- tlement accounts within the framework of various reciprocal credit and payment agreements between the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of each country. Mexico also introduced, in September, a prior import requirement, under which import permits were classified as permitted imports with foreign exchange made available, other permitted imports, and banned imports. Certain personal items and goods with values not exceeding Mex$5,000 were exempted from the requirement. In March Nigeria suspended the issuance of letters of credit and the processing of forms used to release foreign exchange. In October the Syrian Arab Republic required most import settlements to be effected by letters of credit. During the period under review, several coun- tries modified procedures for import transactions. In August, Bangladesh also allowed authorized dealers to buy on their own account import entitle- ment certificates issued under the Export Perfor- mance Licensing Scheme from exporters at prices that would reflect the spread between the dealers' spot buying rate for foreign exchange and the official spot selling rate for foreign exchange. Import entitlement certificates so purchased could, at the dealers' option, be sold to Bangladesh banks by adding a margin of Tk 0.015 per U .S. dollar and Tk 0.025 per pound sterling. In December, Ban- gladesh allowed imports, on a deferred payments basis, of all raw materials, spare parts, and con- sumer goods permitted by import licenses and letters of credit authorization forms issued against cash or under the Export Performance License Scheme. Colombia, in February, extended the maximum terms for import payments to 180 days, and in November lengthened the minimum terms for financing of certain essential imports from 6 months to 9 months. In January the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya permitted the commercial banks to transfer funds abroad on behalf of foreign contrac- tors without the specific approval of the Central Bank in payment for imports of equipment in accordance with the terms specified in the con- tracts. Pakistan, in June, extended to six months the permissible period for forward foreign exchange cover in respect of imports other than crude oil and 30 petroleum products, and government imports, and in respect of sales of foreign exchange to overseas banks' branches and correspondents to cover rupee bills negotiated by them under letters of credit established by authorized dealers in Pakistan. In September Pakistan permitted import letters of credit to be opened in any foreign currency. During 1982, Argentina introduced a number of changes in the import payments procedures that had both liberalizing and restricting effects on import transactions. In January the prohibition on pay- ments for imports before the due date was re- scinded, except that payments before the due date for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$5 million continued to require the approval of the Central Bank. In April payments of up to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value of capital goods imports in advance of shipments were temporarily pro- hibited. In May minimum financing terms of at least 180 days were established for most imports shipped on or after May 24; however, a lower minimum financing period of 90 days was applied to imports originating in or shipped from member countries of the LAI A, member countries of the Central American Common Market, and Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Panama. Payments against shipping documents were permitted for the following: (a) goods on the "negotiated list" ship- ped from, and originating in, LAI A member coun- tries; (b) goods imported by firms located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarc- tica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic and destined for the Special Customs Area; (c) fresh fru i ts, and (d) newspapers and other periodicals. In August minimum financing terms for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$50,000 were established. Not more than 5 percent of the f .o .b. value could be paid in advance and an additional 10 percent could be paid upon the submission of shipping documents. The balance of 85 percent was to be paid in equal installments beginning not more than six months after shipment in accordance with a specified schedule. Exempted from these require- ments were imports of capital goods covered by 85 percent financing from international organizations or official creditors and imports by firms located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Ant- arctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic. State Trading In the period under review there were few changes in members' state-trading practices. The four changes reported to the Fund involved state ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES monopolies on export trade. Burundi abolished an export monopoly for hides in January. In Ju ly Pakistan allowed the exportation of sugar by the private sector. In April, Peru entrusted the National Coffee Board with the distribution of the export quota, and Vanuatu gave monopoly rights on exports of copra to the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board. Exports and Export Proceeds Reflecting the difficult international trading en- vironment, measures taken during the period under review affecting exports and export proceeds mainly provided incentives to exports or were intended to ensure the prompt repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Quantitative restrictions on exports were abol- ished or relaxed in a few countries. In Ju ly Pakistan abrogated the ban on the export of chemical fertilizer and sugar, although the former was still required to be exported by the public sector. Thailand reduced the rice reserve requirement on two occasions in January and February and abol- ished it in May, together with the termination of the cash payment requirement for rice exports. Thai- land also effected the following: in January, the Government lifted the ban on exports of steel bars, relaxed the restrictions on the export of vegetable cooking oil, wood-free paper, newsprint, kenaf paper, and coconut or palm sugar containing cane sugar; in February, it lifted the ban on exports of cement subject to the domestic availability of minimum reserves of 300,000 tons and abolished the export quota for coffee; and in Ju ly, it lifted quantitative restrictions on maize exports for the 1982/83 season. In July Uganda lifted all the remaining quantitative restrictions on agricultural exports. A number of countries tightened or introduced quotas, bans and embargoes on exports. In April Argentina established controls on exports of goods needed for national defense and security. Con- versely, Canada imposed an embargo on shipments to Argentina of arms or other goods that could be used for military purposes during the April- December period. In July Colombia set a quota of 80,000 tons for rice exports. Mali banned the export of cereals in November. Nepal banned the export of logs and sawn logs in January and rice in March, although the latter measure was temporarily suspended from May to August. Thailand imposed quotas on tin exports in April, in conformity with the International Tin Agreement, and tightened the conditions for the issuance of export certificates for tapioca products in June in alignment with the reduction in the EC quota for world exports. The United States virtually banned, through the imposi- tion of export licensing requirements, exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya of national security items as well as of high technology oil and gas equipment that was not readily available outside the United States. In April the United States imposed sanctions against Argentina, including suspension of all military exports, new Export-Import Bank credits, and new commodity credit guarantees; the eco- nomic sanctions, except for the military ones, were lifted in Ju ly. During the June-November period, the United States banned the export to the U .S .S .R. of oil and gas equipment produced by subsidiaries of U.S. companies abroad as well as produced abroad under licenses issued by U .S. companies. In August Venezuela eliminated the export licensing requirement for potatoes and plantains. Licensing requirements were tightened in two coun- tries during the period under review. Liberia added wheat offals and dry brewer's grain to the list of exports subject to licensing requirements. Thailand introduced in February licensing requirements for exports to South Africa, while the prior approval requirement was lifted regarding exports of tapioca products to the EC in February and exports of orchids in March. New fiscal measures to promote exports were taken by a number of developing country members, particularly by countries in Latin America. In September Argentina extended its tax rebate scheme to sugar exports at a special rate of 25 percent, which was reduced to 10 percent in November. In Brazil, various exports became eligi- ble for tax credits: vaseline and certain vegetable oil products in April; cassava starch and essences for use in soft drinks, in May; pectin, in Ju ly; bread and certain other bakery products, in September; certain corn products, including corn flour and unrefined corn oil, in October; and scheelite (a tungsten compound) and unrefined nickel, in November. Also, in November the export tax credit of 11 percent, which was to be reduced and eliminated by March 31,1983, was extended until April 30, 1985. In August Colombia raised the rates of tax credit certificates granted to exporters to 5-15 percent. In November Greece decided to speed up tax refunds on exported goods and to raise the proportion of a company's export earnings that could be deducted for income tax purposes from 1.5 percent to 3.0 percent. In November Haiti exempted export indus- 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tries involved in the assembly of imported parts or materials on a contract basis from the payment of the consular fee on such imports. In January, Nepal provided grants on a per metric ton basis for exports of hessian, sacking, and twine to countries other than India. In January Pakistan added domesti- cally produced engineering goods supplied locally against international tender to the eligible goods for the export rebate scheme as well as for the preferential export finance scheme, and in March, export rebates for hand-knotted carpets and rugs were extended retroactively to shipments after January 1, 1982. In November, Peru extended eligible items under the export incentives scheme to cover local sales of industrial inputs and raw materials for nontraditional manufactured exports. Uruguay extended the coverage of tax credit certifi- cates to a wide range of manufactured products until November, when the authorities replaced them by a system of reimbursement of 5 percent of indirect tax charges on all exports. There was only one instance in which incentives were withdrawn. In April South Africa discon- tinued the granting of specially reduced railroad rates and aid in respect of finance charges ("the Finance Charges Aid Scheme") to exporters. In addition, Peru implemented the registration require- ment system for the granting of tax benefits for nontraditional exports. Several countries abolished or reduced export taxes and duties. Brazil reduced the export taxes on beef cattle hides and orange juice in February and June, respectively, and exempted leather shoes from the export tax scheme in July. In February India abolished the export duty on groundnuts and also reduced the rate of export duty on chromite ore and concentrate to 5 percent ad valorem. In July Mauritius reduced the rate of surcharge on sugar exports from 75 percent to 50 percent. In January Nepal waived the export duties and excise taxes on major export items (jute, cardamom, dry ginger, tea, herbs, and ready-made garments). At the same time, the export duties on leather products were reduced. In February Nicaragua lowered the rates of export taxes on major agricultural products (molasses, sesame, cotton, beef, sugar, and cof- fee). In January Thailand decided to provide all categories of exports containing imported raw materials with eligibility for import duty rebates. Several countries imposed new or raised existing taxes or duties on exports for revenue or domestic supply reasons. In May Argentina introduced an emergency export duty of $a 1,000 per US$1 on some traditional agricultural and livestock exports. 32 In Ju ly, export taxes on a variety of items were raised and rebates for promoted exports were reduced. In November Bolivia temporarily in- creased or introduced taxes on nontraditional ex- ports. In August Brazil declared that it would tax its steel exports to the United States. Taxes were introduced later on the following items: carbon steel plates in September, machine wire in October, and prestressed concrete reinforcing wire in November. In February Indonesia introduced new procedures for collecting an export tax and revised rates of additional export taxes on various agricultural and forestry products for the period April-December. A number of countries provided new or extended existing preferential financing facilities for exports. In September Argentina introduced a new special lending program under which exporters of pro- moted exports could obtain 180-day preferential loans. In October Austria raised the ceiling for export financing at preferential rates from S 8 billion to S 9 billion. In June Bangladesh an- nounced that export credit for nontraditional items would be made available at a rate of interest not exceeding the Bangladesh Bank rate by more than 1 percent. In July Bangladesh reduced the rate of interest on export credit for nontraditional items from 12 percent to 11.5 percent. In September Bangladesh reduced the rate on refinancing facilities against export credit in respect of nontra- ditional items from 9 percent to 8 percent; the coverage of the latter rate was also extended. In April Chile raised the maximum maturity for preshipment export credit to 270 days. The period within which shipment must take place was also raised from 210 days to 240 days. In January Colombia broadened the preshipment credit to ex- porters of products other than coffee, oil and oil derivatives, and gold; export credits could be redis- countable at the Central Bank and could bear a 15 percent rate of interest; 100 percent of exports could be financed, up to 1 year for exports of consumer goods and up to 5 years for exports of capital goods. In February Colombia established a special line of credit for exports to facilitate marketing research, advertising campaigns, and participation in fairs and shows abroad. In March a line of credit was established for exporters of mechanical prod- ucts in order to purchase quality control and packing equipment. In May a special line of credit was established for exporters of products other than coffee, castor oil and oil products, and precious stones to finance their technical assistance expan- sion. In November Greece extended the period during which some exporters could benefit from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES credits with a low interest rate of 10 percent. In April India excluded de-oiled rice bran from the cash compensatory support scheme. Further, a number of changes were implemented in October to rationalize the scheme, including a reduction in cash assistance to export commodities which have accumulated sufficient export capability; the exclu- sion from the scheme of export commodities that have limited export potential; and an increase in cash support for export commodities which have received insufficient support in the past despite their medium-term export potential. In January Indonesia introduced an export credit facility under which a preferential rate was made available by state banks. Sixty percent of the credits were made rediscountable at 3 percent at Bank Indonesia. In August Pakistan extended the period of repayments under the export financing scheme from 180 days to 270 days for carpets and leather products. To monitor export performance and borrowing entitle- ment, Pakistan imposed, in September, a penalty system under the export financing scheme. In November the export financing scheme was fuither modified so that the receipt, instead of the confir- mation, was required to be provided with export finance. In April, Thailand extended the export bill rediscount facility offered by the Bank of Thailand so as to make sugar exports eligible for the facility. In the area of export guarantees, Argentina introduced in August a scheme under which autho- rized agencies could purchase exchange proceeds forward from exporters and obtain cover for this operation from the Central Bank. In March Colom- bia allowed payment of 90 percent of the premium for insurances against certain kinds of risks, appli- cable to Central American and Caribbean countries. In May the scheme of export credit insurance was extended to exporters of services to Central America and the Caribbean area so that commercial risks were covered up to 90 percent, while political risks were covered up to 100 percent. In January Indonesia instituted a facility to cover the risk of nonpayment by foreign buyers with premiums ranging from 0.2 percent to 4 percent of the value of exports. At the same time, a new export credit guarantee facility was established providing credit guarantee at 0.5 percent of export value for a period up to 6 months, 0.75 percent for a period of from 6 to 9 months, and 1 percent for a period of from 9 to 12 months. In March Israel extended the export insurance scheme for unfavorable developments in domestic currency costs relative to the average weighted exchange rate of the Israel shekel against five major foreign currencies. Repatriation and surrender requirements were liberalized in a number of countries. In August Argentina permitted exporters to surrender the exchange proceeds for promoted exports in excess of the targeted amount at the financial market rate. In March Bolivia lowered the export surrender requirement to 40 percent of proceeds net of commercialization charges and of royalty payments denominated in foreign exchange. In February Colombia extended the maximum term for repatria- tion of export proceeds to 15 months whenever exporters likewise extended credits to the foreign importers; for goods sold on a commission basis the term was extended to 24 months; for books and other printed material, to 18 months; for capital goods, to 3 years; and for authorized capital goods, to 5 years and 3 months. In July the term for repatriation of proceeds of exports other than coffee was raised to one year from the date of approval of the export registration, and the term for exports of capital goods was extended to five years. In August Costa Rica reduced the proportion of export pro- ceeds to be surrendered at the official rate from 10 percent to 5 percent; the remaining 95 percent was to be surrendered at the banking rate. Hungary raised the limit of exemption from the surrender requirement for foreign exchange from the equiva- lent of Ft 400 to Ft 2,000 a person. In January Indonesia abolished the surrender requirements on export receipts. Italy extended in September the time allowed for lagged settlements on account of exports from 60 days to 90 days; it was extended to 120 days in November. In January 1983 Jamaica allowed exporters of nontraditional products to retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in the form of negotiable claims, which in turn provided automatic access to import permits for spare parts, capital goods, and raw materials. In October Mexico allowed exporting companies and tourism companies to open special accounts. Ex- porting companies were authorized (1) to deposit foreign exchange accruing from exports, foreign financing, and other receipts from abroad; (2) to convert the deposits into pesos at the ordinary exchange rate; and (3) to use up to 70 percent of the receipts from their accounts for expenses associated with exports. In December Mexico decided that the special deposits by exporters in local currency could only be effected with proceeds from exports, and that they would earn an interest rate equivalent to the rate of depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar plus the interest rate payable on Eurodollar deposits. In December commercial banks could no longer credit the special compensa- 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tory accounts of exporting companies and tourism companies in order to increase the ability of the account holder to purchase foreign exchange. In December, Sierra Leone lowered the proportion of export receipts that had to be surrendered at the official exchange rate to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Several countries tightened regulations govern- ing the surrender of export proceeds. In November Bolivia reinstated the requirement that all export receipts be surrendered to the Central Bank. In September Chile reduced from US$5,000 to US$1,000 the amount exporters were allowed to retain for up to 150 days before repatriation. In November El Salvador required exporters of specified nontraditional products to countries out- side Central America to sell the export proceeds to the commercial banks and the mortgage bank for use in the parallel market, or to deposit them in special foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks exclusively for use of their own imports of goods and services. In March France reduced the maximum period during which export- ers were required to surrender their export proceeds, from 30 days to 15 days from the date of shipment. In November Greece reduced the period during which exporters had to repatriate export proceeds, from 6 months to 3 months. In August Mexico required, in conformity with the establishment of a dual market, all export receipts of petroleum to be surrendered at the appreciated official exchange rate; in September all export receipts were made, in principle, subject to surrender at the ordinary exchange rate. In April Portugal announced that when settlement for exports occurred later than 120 days after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the 120th day would be applied. In December Turkey modified the arrangement for the retention and transfer of specified proportions of export earnings (50 percent of export proceeds of mining products and manufactures and 10 percent for fresh vegetables, fruits, and fish) so that exporters could use such foreign exchange entitle- ments under the arrangement only for their own import requirements. Yugoslavia reduced in May the maximum period for the repatriation of export proceeds, from 90 days to 60 days. In October Zambia required exporters to register with the Bank of Zambia before they could be refunded 50 percent of their export proceeds. Several member countries implemented various other measures, mostly with a view to expanding exports. In October Austria signed an oil barter deal with the Islamic Republic of Iran under which Austria would export industrial products, including 34 machinery and energy equipment. In July Bangla- desh abolished the import license permit fee for the importation of machinery for export-oriented industries. In January Indonesia issued guidelines for the new export counterpurchase policy whereby certain imports by the Government and public sector enterprises had to be linked to the export of non-oil products from Indonesia. Indonesia also an- nounced, in January, the abolishment of the re- quirement that exporters had to open letters of credit and improved customs procedures, including 24-hour handling of exports and a simplification of the processing of export documents. In August Nicaragua agreed to open a US$20 million line of credit with the Central Bank of Costa Rica for use by Nicaraguan exporters to Costa Rica. Con- versely, Costa Rica agreed to consolidate and reschedule US$70 million of short-term debt of Nicaragua over seven years. In March Sri Lanka subjected inward remittances of foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$50,000 a transaction to prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Thailand relaxed the regulation on the export of black matpe in March and abolished the minimum export prices for shredded and pelletized tapioca in April. Current Invisibles In 1982 the trend of changes in regulations on current invisibles by Fund members was, on bal- ance, toward greater restrictiveness. As in recent years, most of the measures taken were with respect to allowances or exchange allocations for tourism and other travel abroad. To a lesser extent, steps were also taken affecting remittances of incomes and profits, and imports and exports of bank notes and coin. Many developing countries intensified existing restrictions, both for balance of payments reasons and to prevent unauthorized capital trans- fers. Nevertheless liberalization of regulations re- garding foreign exchange allowance for travel, transactions relating to travel, medical expenses, or study abroad occurred in several countries during 1982. Algeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cyprus, and Sierra Leone raised exchange allocations for var- ious types of travel abroad. Colombia eliminated a ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by foreign tourists leaving the country. Hungary increased allowances for travel to member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) and automatically entitled Hungarian residents ev- ery third year to allowances for travel outside the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES CMEA area; these allowances were also raised in 1982. Hotels were permitted to credit to a retention account foreign currency collected in excess of targets established by the Bank of Jamaica. Israel established a surcharge for residents' foreign travel in June, but removed it in September. Morocco increased foreign exchange allowances for students abroad. Pakistan raised its foreign exchange quota for private travel abroad and liberalized certain restrictions affecting business travel abroad. Other changes in Pakistan included increasing foreign exchange allowances for study abroad. Turkey relaxed its restrictions on tourist travel. In Uganda quantitative limits on travel and on emigrant and expatriate remittances were raised substantially. In January Zambia lifted restrictions on holiday allow- ances but in February imposed a levy on sales of foreign exchange for travel and education, except government travel, approved medical expenses, and government-sponsored scholarships. In April the levy on sales of foreign exchange for payments abroad for educational purposes was waived ret- roactively. In addition, banks were authorized to give travel allowances to applicants other than their established customers. Many countries tightened regulations governing foreign exchange allocations for travel, education, or medical purposes. Upon their arrival in Algeria, nonresidents were required to purchase a minimum amount of Algerian dinars. In addition, a require- ment was introduced that travel tickets bought by nonresidents for travel abroad be paid for with foreign exchange purchased abroad. Argentina, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, and Mexico set various limits on the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad, expenses of students abroad, foreign medical treatment, or family transfers. In Novem- ber, Bolivia established standards and priorities for the Central Bank's allocation of foreign exchange for purposes of foreign travel, students' subsis- tences, and health treatment abroad. In addition, banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies were permitted to purchase foreign exchange pro- ceeds from tourism, at a premium of 8 percent over the buying rate established by the Central Bank. Besides raising allowances for travel abroad in April, Brazil set an annual limit on purchases of foreign exchange for travel and representation expenditures abroad of exporting companies, and such purchases in excess of the regular individual travel allowance became subject to the tax on financial operations (IOF). In July, the exchange allowance for travel abroad was reduced for non- business trips to South America. In September, the previously liberalized foreign exchange allowance for travel abroad was restricted. Costa Rica placed limits on the amounts of foreign exchange that commercial banks could sell at the free market rate for foreign travel, family remittances, and unregis- tered students; sales exceeding these limits were subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Dominica placed an ad valorem tax on the purchase of travel tickets. Tourists arriving in Egypt were required to surrender a specific amount of foreign exchange at the commercial bank rate and to produce evidence thereof when settling accounts in certain hotels. Guatemala reduced the annual allo- cation for residents traveling abroad and increased the guarantee deposit requirement for foreign travel. Special regulations became effective regard- ing travel between Hungary and Czechoslovakia that required tourists to possess specified minimum amounts of the currency of their country of destina- tion. Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Nigeria reduced certain travel allowances. Tourist operators in Maldives, who had been permitted previously to settle accounts in foreign currency and retain the proceeds, were required to accept only local cur- rency bought by tourists from official money changing institutions for all transactions. In Mex- ico, foreign travelers were required to declare on arrival their foreign exchange holdings and were permitted in turn to convert a certain amount upon departure. Travelers entering or leaving Sudan were required to officially report their foreign exchange holdings, and, in addition, departing travelers were required to provide evidence that any foreign exchange in excess of the allotted amount had been acquired through official channels. The United States placed restrictions on travel-related transac- tions and travel for specific purposes by U .S. citizens to and within Cuba, and no longer autho- rized the processing and payment of credit transac- tions to any person in Cuba. Venezuela raised its travel tax. Yugoslavia announced the requirement that nationals make interest-free deposits for periods of one year for each border crossing associated with private travel. The initial deposit requirement of Din 5,000 would be increased progressively by Din 2,000 for each subsequent crossing within that year. Zambia announced re- strictions on foreign exchange allowances for busi- ness travel abroad by civil servants and employees of parastatal organizations. In October, authorized dealers were no longer allowed to approve business and holiday travel allowances, and holiday allow- ances were suspended for workers on contract with certain forms of resident permit. Zimbabwe set a 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS maximum annual limit on foreign exchange for holiday travel that could be accumulated up to three years. Several regulations affecting payments and pro- ceeds for services performed by nonresidents and transfers of income accruing to nonresidents, such as profits, dividends, interest, royalites, and pen- sions, were liberalized during the period under review. Brazil abolished the graduated supplemen- tary tax on remittances of specified dividends paid by investment companies and exempted such com- panies from capital gains tax, while taxing cash dividends and bonuses at a flat rate. Foreign currency deposits made in Brazil after June 17 were exempted from the general requirement that pay- ments of interest and commission not vary from the schedule foreseen in the registration certificate. The People's Republic of China imposed a tax equiva- lent to 5 percent of total revenue on foreign vessels carrying freight and passengers to Chinese ports. In December, the Bank of Mexico authorized the opening of special accounts for the repayment of interest to commercial banks abroad. Colombia reduced the deposit on service payments. In Paki- stan forward cover was made available for repatria- tion of hajj notes collected by correspondents in Saudi Arabia. The Philippines announced that foreign tourists holding visas valid for 59 days could remit up to US$1,000 abroad, but remittances in excess would have to be approved by the Central Bank. Thailand extended through 1982 the exemp- tion from withholding taxes of interest payments for foreign loans of all maturities. Uganda announced that new contracts between companies holding external accounts and the Government of Uganda would incorporate guarantees for the full repatria- tion of profit, dividends, and debt service pay- ments. A maximum annual allowance was allocated for all other invisible payments except education, medical, and advertising expenses. These would continue to be treated on a case-by-case basis. Most changes in 1982 affecting remittances of nonresident income and other service payments were restrictive. Argentina suspended the right under the foreign investment regulations to transfer profits and repatriate investments in April. Foreign obligations arising from profits, dividends, royal- ties, and technical assistance could, with the excep- tion of obligations to U .K. nationals and residents, be paid with U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by the Government of Argentina. The Central Bank could approve the transfer of claims below a specified amount through the official exchange market on a case-by-case basis. Bhutan required 36 that all invisible receipts in currencies other than the Indian rupee be surrendered to the Ministry of Finance. Colombia established a minimum term for freight and transportation service payments. The Central Bank of Chile limited the kind of invisible transactions that could be handled by the exchange houses. From November, incomes from personal transfers or received by representatives of foreign countries, residents, and receipts from tourism were required to be sold in El Salvador's parallel ex- change market, and personal transfers could only be deposited in the special foreign currency deposit accounts. In France, transfers of donations to nonresidents were made subject to authorization by the Bank of France. Iraq reduced permissible amounts that certain residents and foreign nationals could transfer abroad in December. In January Guyana prohibited transfers abroad of gifts in the form of cash. In Hungary additional monetary limits were introduced for articles taken out of Hungary by visiting nonresidents from CMEA countries, except Cuba and Viet Nam. The Bank of Sierra Leone lowered limits on permissible outward remittances of savings by resident foreign nationals without special approval. In Sri Lanka inward remittances of foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles in excess of a specified amount were made subject to prior approval. With effect from December, Trinidad and Tobago required commer- cial banks to obtain prior approval for outward remittances of gifts and donations. In Yugoslavia trade in foreign currencies, checks, and letters of credit between residents and nonresidents was prohibited. Zambia announced that the commuted value of pensions for expatriate workers eligible for remittances was subject to a maximum limit and approval by the Bank of Zambia. In addition, the facility whereby gratuities of holders of certain forms of resident permit were remittable at the completion of a contract was canceled and gratuities could be remitted only at the time that the applicant was emigrating from Zambia. Remit- tances by residents to nonresidents for gift purposes were made subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank in Zimbabwe, although the maximum limits on the remittances remained unchanged. Several countries changed (mainly liberalized) regulations governing the export and import of domestic and foreign currency notes. Cyprus raised the limit on foreign currency notes that could be taken out of the country. Malaysia removed the limits on the import and export of currency notes by travelers. Malta imposed a ban on the repatriation of domestic currency notes, and in January Norway ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES abolished the prohibition against import or export of bank notes in denominations larger than NKr 100. The maximum amount that Turkish travelers were permitted to take out of the country in the form of Turkish bank notes and coin was increased. Trinidad and Tobago raised the limit on the amount of currency notes that residents and nonresidents were permitted to bring into the country. Major changes during the first quarter of 1983 in regulations affecting current invisibles involved travel allowances and personal remittances. South Africa increased the ordinary travel allowance in February. In March Brazil, Chile, and France reduced basic exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents to foreign countries. Brazil also re- stricted the use of a monetary limit on personal remittances to specific purposes. In addition, Chile announced that central bank authorization is re- quired for a number of current invisible transactions. Payments Arrears Payments arrears occur when the authorities of a country are responsible for undue delays, beyond those required by normal administrative proce- dures, in approving applications or in meeting bona fide requests for foreign exchange. Payments ar- rears constitute an exchange restriction under Arti- cle VIII, Section 2(a) when they involve current international transactions as described in Arti- cle XXX, Section (d) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and are therefore subject to approval under Article VIII. When payments arrears are incurred by the government because a country belonging to a common central bank arrangement is unable to obtain domestic currency with which to purchase needed foreign exchange from the com- mon central bank (Bank of Central African States (BEAC), Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), and East Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA)), such arrears are treated as government defaults rather than exchange restrictions. Pay- ments arrears incurred by a government itself are also treated as defaults. These distinctions between payments arrears and defaults are relevant, how- ever, only for the purpose of the Fund's jurisdiction under Article VIII; under the Fund's policy on the use of its resources, defaults as well as payments arrears on capital transfers and current payments are examined, and their orderly reduction and elimina- tion is usually made a performance criterion. In March 1982, and again in January 1983, the Fund reviewed the implementation of its policies with respect to payment arrears, steps taken by members to deal with arrears, and general devel- opments in this area. The major conclusions of these studies can be summarized as follows: (1) External payments arrears and defaults are incurred, generally speaking, when other measures to correct an unsustainable balance of payments position have not been adopted soon enough, or are of insufficient strength. Other possible measures aimed at keeping payments current include the imposition of exchange and trade restrictions and the rescheduling of the obligations as temporary expedients, while additional adjustment measures are brought to bear. The problems posed by external payments arrears have intensified sharply in 1982. Not only have aggregate arrears more than doubled in a short period, but there has been an increasing tendency for relatively more developed economies in Eastern Europe and Latin America to incur arrears. An increase in arrears raises the riskiness of international lending. One consequence is that countries in arrears are accorded reduced access to international capital markets. A second consequence is that the cost of international credit, as well as of imported goods and services, becomes higher than would otherwise be the case for most borrowers. (2) Performance criteria for the elimination or substantial reduction of external payments arrears constitute an important element of programs in support of the use of the Fund's resources. Being directed toward the normalization of creditor rela- tions and thus "unlocking" credits, Fund resources, supported by adjustment programs, play an impor- tant role in restoring the member's access to international credits at a sustainable level of real resource inflows. Where there is no program in effect with the Fund, the incurrence of arrears and related policies have been subject to careful scrutiny in the context of Article IV consultations with the Fund. In many instances, a requirement that the domestic currency counterpart of the arrears be deposited with the banking system not only will demonstrate the authorities' determination to re- duce and eventually eliminate payments arrears, but also will facilitate the monitoring of payments arrears, as well as their reduction in an orderly manner. In this connection, it may be noted that a number of programs in association with existing stand-by arrangements or the extended Fund facility provide for the counterpart deposit requirement. (3) In view of the disorderly nature of this form 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of exchange restriction which makes it particularly undesirable, the Fund has consistently followed the practice of not approving the maintenance of arrears with respect to current international payments under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles, except when a satisfactory program for their elimination has been in place. Such a program is often associated with the use of Fund resources by the member, or in other instances the schedule for elimination may be incorporated in the framework of policy discussions with the member at the time of its Article IV consultation with the Fund. (4) The Fund has been continuing its efforts to aid in improving the quality of the data on payments arrears incurred by member countries, and some improvements have been evident. However, in a number of countries the quality of data relating to payments arrears is still deficient with respect to the total amount and the type of payments arrears. Moreover, the data on external payments arrears are available for most countries on a lagged basis on ly. If programs for the reduction of payments arrears are to contribute to a country's balance of payments and adjustment process, they must be coordinated with external debt and reserve managemen t. Pay- ments arrears involve continuous flows of exchange transactions, so that their restrict!veness may change frequently. According to the latest information available, the total of payments arrears (including those in respect of capital transactions) incurred by Fund members and government defaults is estimated to have amounted to SDR 13.5 billion at the end of 1982, more than double the amount of SDR 6.1 billion recorded at the end of 1981.17 During 1977-81 the total payments arrears of members had remained relatively constant. The record indicates that arrears, once ac- cumulated, tend to persist for several years. In some cases, the initial accumulations are so large that their liquidation presents severe problems. The number of countries incurring arrears has been rising almost continuously; of the 44 countries incurring arrears during 1975-82, only 8 countries have managed to eliminate them. Of the remaining countries, 10 experienced virtually continuously 17 The amounts of payments arrears and government defaults reported here are based on official national sources, compiled in some instances with the assistance of Fund staff or creditor organizations. Although there have been improvements in the quality of this data, the criterion for iden t ify ing arrears d iffers from country to country. Arrears may be measured from the due date of the payment, or taking into account normal processing lags, or other considerations. 38 rising arrears in recent years, whereas only 3 countries demonstrated continuously falling totals. This persistent and, to a certain degree, self- perpetuating nature of arrears underlines for mem- ber countries the importance of policies aimed at avoiding their initial incurrence. The number of countries incurring, or believed to be incurring, payments arrears and government defaults at the end of 1982 was 35, the same as at the end of 1981. Twenty-nine countries identified as having pay- ments arrears or government defaults, and for which information for the latter part of 1982 or the end of 1982 is available, are Argentina, Bolivia, Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, The Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hon- duras, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico, Nicara- gua, Romania, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Viet Nam, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. Although no information for 1982 is available for four countries (Benin, Chad, Guinea- Bissau, and Mauritania) that had payments arrears or government defaults at the end of 1980 and 1981, it is unlikely that these countries eliminated payments arrears or government defaults in 1981 or 1982. The global estimate of the outstanding payments arrears and government defaults at the end of 1982, therefore, includes the data for the end of 1981 of these countries (and, in two instances, the end of 1980). During 1982 payments arrears emerged in Argentina, Ecuador, Guatemala, and Mexico. Nigeria is known to have incurred payments ar- rears, but quantitative information is not available. Hungary incurred payments arrears but eliminated them before the end of the year. Five countries— the People's Republic of the Congo, Jamaica, Senegal, Somalia, and Turkey—eliminated their payments arrears or government defaults. During 1982, of the countries that had payments arrears or government defaults at the end of 1981, the outstanding amount rose in 19 countries (Bolivia, Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Domini- can Republic, Ghana, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Madagascar, Romania, Sierra Leone, Su- dan, Tanzania, Togo, Viet Nam, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia) and declined in 6 countries (El Salvador, The Gambia, Guinea, Mali, Nicaragua, and Uganda). In one country (Comoros) the out- standing amount remained unchanged. In part, the exceptionally high aggregate level of arrears as of last quarter of 1982 may be viewed as transitional. In a number of countries, including several with the largest arrears, negotiations aimed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES at rescheduling overdue and fu ture payments obli- gations were either under way or were to commence soon, following a marked decline in overall amounts rescheduled in 1981 and the first three quarters of 1982. For a number of countries, rescheduling exercises are presently under way. Nevertheless, total delays in meeting external con- tractual obligations, comprising both outstanding rescheduled payments obligations and unre- scheduled external payments arrears, are the appro- priate indicator of the risk attaching to these claims. Substitution of new contracts for the unilateral rolling over implicit in arrears generally does not in itself obviate the problem. However, the reschedul- ing would help in achieving a more sustainable balance of payments, when there is an inappropriate bunch ing of ma tu r i t ies and when ad ju s tment pro- grams are introduced aimed at generating the necessary strengthening of the overall balance of payments. Viewed from the perspective of total delays and deferments, the risk situation has not deteriorated quite as markedly as the more than doubling of arrears noted above would suggest. Af ter remaining v i r tua l ly constant in 1980 and 1981, the ratios of the total of arrears and ou t s tand ing amoun ts re- scheduled to both total imports and debt of non -o il developing coun tr ies increased to 1 1 .5 percent and 8.2 percent in 1982, from 6.7 percent and 4.9 percent in 1981, r e sp e c t iv e ly .18 Th is deve lopment was reflected in spreads over the London in t e rb ank offered rate (L IBOR) paid by borrowers from the non-oil deve lop ing coun t r ies, wh i ch rose by ap- prox ima te ly one ha lf of one percentage po int from 1980 to the second quarter of 1982. Payments arrears and government d e f au l ts ou t- standing at the end of 1982 invo lved de lays in paymen ts for merchandise imports and interest paymen ts, as we ll as amor t iza t ion paymen ts for off ic ial and pr iva te debt. In some coun t r ies, pay- ments arrears also consisted of de lays in the provision of foreign exchange for other cu r rent inv is ib les, such a^ rem i t tances of prof i ts and d i v i- dends on foreign inve s tmen t, or transfers of earn- ings of the in terna t ional a i r l ine s. Paymen ts arrears w i th respect to import paymen ts inc luded overdue letters of credit and delays in the prov is ion of foreign exchange for approved import transac t ions; often there was less delay for "essential" impor ts (par t icu lar ly pe t ro leum) than for other impor ts. In some instances, however, it was d i f f i c u lt to deter- mine whether such delays in fact represented payments arrears, because the t ime period consid- ered to be necessary by the au thor i t ies to process applications for foreign exchange transfers varied considerably from coun try to coun t ry. Moreover, in instances of service paymen ts for wh ich the due date of settlement was not specified, such as remittances of profits and d iv idends on fore ign investments, verification of the existence of pay- ments arrears was d i f f i c u l t. Among the countries incu r r ing paymen ts arrears at the end of 1982, four countries (Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, Ma l i, and Togo) shared common currency arrangements as members of the French franc area .19 Payments arrears emerged in these countries because the au thor i t ies did not have adequate recourse to domestic currency to purchase foreign exchange from the ir jo int central banks (or central bank, in the case of M a l i) ow ing to s ta tu tory l im i ts on lend ing by the jo int central bank to the participating governments, and not because of unava i lab i l i ty of exchange at the central b ank. At the end of 1982 ad jus tment programs sup- ported by stand-by or extended arrangements, all in the higher credit tranches, were in effect in the fo l low ing 13 countries that were iden t if ied as incurr ing paymen ts arrears or government de fau l ts: Costa Rica, El Salvador, The Gamb ia, H a i t i, Honduras, Liberia, Madagascar, M a l i, Mex ico, Roman ia, Sudan, Togo, and Uganda. In add i t ion, a stand-by arrangement w i th A rgen t ina was approved in early 1983. W i th one exception, the programs provided for a phased reduction or e l im in a t ion of paymen ts arrears or government de fau l ts d u r i ng the program period, or du r ing the f irst year of the program period in the case of mu l t i -year programs, as a performance criterion. One exception was the stand-by arrangement w i th Sudan. The perfor- mance criterion regarding paymen ts arrears under this arrangement provided that Sudan wou ld not build up payments arrears in respect of already rescheduled debt. The standard unde r tak ing not to impose or in tens i fy exchange restrictions on current payments constituted the performance criterion for payments arrears w i th respect to current paymen ts. In a number of ad jus tment programs, a counterpart deposit requ irement in local currency was in- troduced as a means of ma in ta in ing a re l iab le record on payments arrears and of mon i to r ing the bona 18For earlier developments, see Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1982, Chart 3, page 27. 19The Central African Repub l ic and Chad are members of the Bank of Central Afr ican States (BEAC) and Togo belongs to the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO ). Ma li has a special monetary arrangement w i th France. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS fides of foreign exchange applications. Such de- posit requirements also helped to effect an orderly elimination of payments arrears by ensuring that domestic debtors had sufficient financial resources when foreign exchange was released, and also served as a means of moderating liquidity expansion. Multiple Currency Practices Article VIII, Section 3 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement prohibits a member from engaging in, or permitting its fiscal agencies to engage in, any discriminatory currency arrangements or multiple currency practices without the approval of the Fund.20 Such practices encompass separate ex- change rates (through the mechanism of dual or multiple exchange markets, the establishment of separate official exchange rates for specified trans- actions, or the application of exchange measures, including exchange taxes or subsidies, and exces- sive exchange rate spreads), broken cross rates, or discriminatory currency arrangements. During 1982, as in 1981 and 1980, about one third of the Fund's members engaged in multiple currency practices.21 Few of the multiple currency practices (involving eight members) remained unapproved by the Fund following consultations with members concluded in 1982 and early 1983. The longer-run trend toward a decreased inci- dence of multiple currency practices among Fund members resumed in 1982, following a leveling-off in 1981. Five members eliminated all remaining multiple currency practices during 1982,22 whereas in 1981 no member eliminated all practices. Of the 45 members maintaining multiple currency prac- tices at the end of December 1982, 9 countries made changes in their multiple currency practices during the period under review that resulted in a net simplification, including 3 that eliminated a spe- 20 For a detailed description of the October 1979 and March 1981 reviews of the concept of, and Fund policies relating to, multiple currency practices and the criteria applied by the Fund in determining the existence of multiple currency practices and broken cross rates, see the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, page 17, and 1981, pages 22-23. 21 In this section all forms of multiple currency practices, that is, multiple currency practices involving capital as well as current transactions, are discussed. 22Lao People's Democratic Republic, Maldives, Mauritius, Somalia, and Turkey. In addition, Bolivia introduced and eliminated a multiple currency practice in the course of 1982, and Kenya abolished its only remaining practice at the end of January 1983. 40 cific practice. Compared with 17 members in 1981, 13 members introduced at least one new multiple currency practice during 1982, generally in the form of a dual exchange market system, including 6 members not listed as maintaining multiple cur- rency practices at the end of December 1981.23 Three members gave official recognition to parallel markets already in existence.24 Four members made changes to existing multiple currency prac- tices that did not result in a net liberalization or intensification. Members tended to move in the direction of elimination of remaining multiple currency practices in association with Fund pro- grams. Five countries having dual or multiple exchange markets that adopted programs in support of use of Fund resources in the 12-month period ended January 1983 (Argentina, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Mexico, and Uganda) incor- porated target dates for reunification of these markets in their programs. The most significant aspect of the reduction in members' reliance on multiple currency practices during 1982 and early 1983 was the total elimina- tion of all remaining practices by seven members. Although Bolivia adopted a dual exchange market in March, consisting of official buying and selling rates set at $b 43.18 = US$1 and $b 44.00 = US$1, respectively, and a free market rate in which commercial banks and exchange houses were per- mitted to operate freely, the Central Bank an- nounced unification of the markets in November. During 1982 Kenya abolished the practice of requiring fees for the purchase of foreign exchange to buy airline tickets and gradually reduced and eliminated the advance import deposit scheme by the end of January 1983. The Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic depreciated its preferential ex- change rate from KN 30 = US$1 to KN 35 = US$1 in January 1982 and effectively unified the exchange system by confining the use of the official rate of KN 10 = US$1 to accounting purposes and allowing the preferential rate to be used for all transactions. In January the Government of Mal- dives announced that henceforth the official rate— previously used for all transactions with the Mal- dives Monetary Authority —would be used only for accounting purposes and that all transactions would be effected at the market rate of Rf 10 = US$1. The multiple currency practice maintained by 23Chile, Guinea, Mexico, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Zam- bia. Hungary, which maintains multiple currency practices, became a member of the Fund in 1982. 24Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, and Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Mauritius, by which imports of rice and wheat f lour took place at the old exchange rate of SDR 1 = Mau Rs 10, was abolished in Augus t, and since then all transactions were carried out at a single rate of SDR 1 = Mau Rs 12. With the announcement in Ju ly by the Central Bank of Somalia that the exchange rate of the Somali shilling would cease to be pegged to the U .S. dollar and would be pegged instead to the SDR at the rate of So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1, the previous dual exchange market system was abolished. Turkey's export retention scheme was modified in December to remove the features which gave rise to the only remaining mu l t ip le currency practice: the right of exporters to transfer foreign exchange to a third party at a freely determined rate (usually resulting in more depre- ciated rates than the official rate). During 1982, three countries eliminated some multiple currency practices, but not all. Argentina reunified its exchange market in November, after splitting it into a commercial and a f inanc ial market in Ju ly, and introduced a mixing rate for trade transactions in September, calculated as a percent- age of the commercial and financial market. The only remaining mu l t ip le currency practice in Argentina is the system of tax rebates for promoted exports, for which the rates were changed from 10 percent to 5, 10, and 14 percent, respectively, in 1982. Ecuador modified the operation of its ex- change system under which three sets of exchange rates existed: the fixed official rate, the nonofficial free market rate, and the free market rate of the Central Bank. In March Ecuador shifted tourist receipts arid a large part of trade transactions from the central bank free market to the official market. In May, following the devaluation of the sucre in the official market, Ecuador abolished the central bank free market leaving two markets in effec t. Romania continued the simplification of its ex- change system. In January exchange rates d ifferent from the commercial rate of lei 15 = US$1 that are applicable to exports were reduced from 25 to 12, as was the spread between the highest and lowest rates, from lei 17 = US$1 to lei 10 = US$1. The separate exchange rate for imports of iron ore and coking coal was eliminated in January and likewise the separate rate for crude imports in Ju ly. Concur- rently with the devaluation of the commercial rate in January 1983, the number of separate exchange rates applied to exports (other than the commercial rate) was reduced from 12 to 2 in January 1983. Other reductions in members' reliance on mu l t i- ple currency practices included a variety of mea- sures ranging from steps leading toward a un i f ica- tion of the exchange system, inc lud ing a simplification of the existing system through offi- cial recognition of a parallel market, to effective reduction of exchange rate spreads. Algeria mod- ified the regulation granting an encouragement premium on the convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians working abroad aimed at providing the remitter with DA 1 = F 1. Since May 1982, Algerian workers are required to change F 700 at the official exchange rate and are given the pre- mium only for amounts above this level. Brazil made several modifications in its mu l t ip le currency practices. A number of imports, inc lud ing soy- beans, raw hides, and leather, were effectively exempted from the tax on financial operations (IOF), while the export taxes on cattle hides and orange and tangerine ju ice were lowered. In addi- tion, the graduated supplementary income tax of 40 percent to 60 percent on remittances of dividends from investment companies that exceed 12 percent a year of invested capital was abolished in Decem- ber. In September Colombia reduced the taxes applied to foreign exchange proceeds from 12 percent to 9 percent. Costa Rica officially recog- nized the free exchange market in August by authorizing banks to handle all exchange transac- tions, including those previously handled by the exchange houses, in the free market. Three ex- change markets remain in effect: (1) the official market, (2) the banking market, and (3) the free market. A mixing rate also results from the require- ment that foreign exchange proceeds of exports be surrendered: 5 percent at the official exchange rate and 95 percent at the banking rate, compared with 10 percent and 90 percent, respectively, at the end of 1981. In the early fa l l, the Dominican Republic recognized the parallel exchange market by authorizing the commercial banks to participate in that market. In conformity with an adjustment program supported by the Fund, El Salvador shifted the following transactions from the official market to the parallel market: proceeds from exports of specified nontraditional products to countries out- side Central America, inc lud ing those from indus- tries which export more than 25 percent of their products to these countries; specified incomes and receipts from tourism and diplomats; and author- ized imports. In accordance with its obligation under the Accession Treaty with the EC, Greece reduced the rates for advance import deposits for specified imports by a third, to one half of the levels prevailing before January 1, 1981. In the context of a review of its Fund program and in a move toward eventual unification of the exchange system, 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Jamaica adopted a scheme that combined the formalization of the parallel exchange market with automatic licensing for all but consumer goods imports. With the goal of progressively shifting transactions from the official to the fluctuating free market, the authorities of Paraguay approved in February the sale of 50 percent of total export receipts in the free market and the transfer of payments for imports of automobiles and a variety of consumer goods from the official to the free market. The Syrian Arab Republic transferred the settlement of a number of export commodities including military equipment and supplies, from the official to the parallel market. Actions creating new multiple currency practices or modifying multiple currency practices in such a way as to result in a net intensification were taken in 15 countries in 1982. As previously mentioned, both Argentina and Bolivia adopted dual exchange markets which were unified later in the year. Brazil expanded its list of exports eligible for tax credits in 1982 to include a variety of additional products. Furthermore, the general export tax credit of 11 percent, which was to be lowered to 9 percent on December 31, and eliminated by March 31, 1983, was extended until April 30, 1985. Additional taxes on specified manufactured exports to the United States were established to prevent the imposition of countervailing duties by the United States. With effect from September 3, the Central Bank of Chile sold foreign exchange at a preferential rate —fixed at Ch$49.623 = US$1 on August 6—for the servicing of foreign debt obligations and debt denominated or guaranteed in foreign exchange and contracted prior to August 6, 1982, while all other transactions continued to be effected at the official rate. Colombia increased the rates of tax credit certificates granted to certain exports from the rates of 5 percent, 9 percent, and 12 percent to 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent, respectively. In the context of an overall adjustment program that was formally adopted in December, Guinea formally recognized a system under which the application of the official exchange rate of GS 24.6853 = SDR 1 is limited to exchange transactions effected through the official channel; all other transactions are channeled through the unofficial parallel market. Mexico introduced a dual exchange market system in 1982 and modified it several times during the year. In August Mexico established a dual ex- change market consisting of a preferential rate— which applied mainly to certain priority imports, sales of exchange for servicing public sector debt, interest payments for private sector debt, public 42 sector foreign borrowing, and proceeds from petro- leum exports—and a freely floating rate at which commercial banks were authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange for all other transactions. On September 1 a generalized foreign exchange control system was announced in which two basic ex- change rates were maintained—an ordinary rate of Mex$70 = US$1 and a preferential rate of Mex$50 = US$1. Sales of foreign exchange at the preferen- tial rate were to apply principally to debt of domestic credit institutions and the public sector, to principal and interest payments for private sector obligations entered into prior to September 1, and to a broad spectrum of officially authorized im- ports. On October 29 the authorities announced the establishment of a third exchange market in the border areas and free trade zones in which the exchange rate was to be determined by supply and demand. In December, the Mexican authorities revoked the generalized exchange control system and established two foreign exchange markets: a controlled and a free market. The controlled market rate, adjusted on a daily basis, involves the follow- ing specific transactions: (1) all merchandise export receipts, (2) public and private sector principal and interest payments, (3) specified imports, (4) Mexi- can payments to international organizations, and (5) other authorized transactions. All other transactions are effected in the free market at a rate determined by supply and demand, except for the repayment of certain obligations by financial institutions and leasing companies which is effected at a special rate set at Mex$50 = US$1. Nicaragua adopted several multiple currency practices in addition to the previously existing dual exchange market consist- ing of an official market, in which the rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar, and a parallel market, in which the rate is floating but subject to official intervention. Effective February 15 a tax of C$5 = US$1 was introduced on purchases of foreign exchange in the official market for payments of nonessential imports; at the same time, export taxes on several agricultural products were lowered. In March several different effective exchange rates emerged from new regulations that required a specified portion of the f .o .b. proceeds of certain merchandise exports to be surrendered in return for exchange certificates and the rest to be exchanged at various mixing proportions through the official and parallel markets. In April Nigeria introduced a non-interest-bearing advance import deposit re- quirement, ranging from 25 percent to 250 percent. Effective July 16, the Central Bank of Paraguay fixed the exchange rate in the fluctuating market at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES ^r 160 = US$1 and determined that this rate applied to exports of meat, vegetables, and fresh fru i t, servicing of short-term and long-term debt contracted by commercial banks and the private sector, remittances of dividends and profits by the private sector, proceeds from invisibles, and all imports not eligible for the official rate. The official rate remained fixed at (fa 126 = US$1 and is applicable to specified imports, including petro- leum, and for public foreign debt service. Most exports are converted at new mixing rates of 50 percent of receipts at (6 126 = US$1 and 50 percent at Ci 160 = US$1. Sierra Leone established a dual exchange market system effective December 17 that consists of (1) the official market in which the exchange rate is set daily by the Bank of Sierra Leone based on the official peg of SDR 0.731566 = Le 1, and (2) the commercial market in which the exchange rate is determined by market forces through foreign exchange tenders. Over one half of the estimated total foreign exchange transactions are channeled through the commercial market and are centralized at the Bank of Sierra Leone. After eliminating all remaining multiple currency prac- tices on July 1, Somalia instituted a temporary bonus scheme, effective January 1, 1983, under which a 33 percent premium in domestic currency terms (So. Sh. 5 = US$1) above the official exchange rate would be paid on workers' remitt- ances and capital inflows by Somali nationals. In May the Syrian Arab Republic created a third exchange market with more depreciated rates than those obtained in the parallel and official markets for private transfers and tourist receipts and pay- ments. Uganda introduced a dual exchange market system in August which includes a market ("Win- dow One") in which foreign exchange is allocated at a preferential rate managed by the Bank of Uganda for specified transactions such as certain imports, public debt service payments, loans and grants, and traditional agricultural exports. In the second market ("Window Two") limited amounts of foreign exchange are sold for all payments not eligible for financing at Window One in a weekly auction administered by the Bank of Uganda. In Zambia a 10 percent levy was imposed in February on the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad. Two countries, Egypt and Indonesia, made changes to their multiple currency practices that did not substantially alter their pre-existing ar- rangements. In March Egypt announced that all private sector imports passing through, but not directly involving, commercial banks were to be financed through the "own exchange market" at fluctuating rates freely determined by buyer and seller. In addition, advance import deposits were to be made in foreign exchange instead of in either Egyptian pounds or foreign exchange. Both mea- sures essentially meant a return to the system prevailing prior to August 1, 1981. In April Indonesia introduced new procedures for collecting the export tax and the additional export tax. As a result of the modification, the taxes now give rise to multiple currency practices. In January 1983, Jamaica introduced a dual exchange market, under which settlements in respect of traditional exports, exports to CARICOM countries, specified invisibles, and essential imports would be effected at the official exchange rate; all other transactions would be conducted in a parallel market, operated by the commercial banks, at a freely determined exchange rate. On the first day of trading, January 10, the parallel market rate was approximately J$2.50 = US$1.00, representing a 29 percent devaluation relative to the official rate. Major changes in members' multiple currency practices in early 1983 included liberalization of existing practices by three members. In March Brazil eliminated the financial transactions tax (IOF) applied to purchases of foreign exchange for travel expenses, unworked coal, sodium carbonate and reduced it by 40 percent for a specific list of commodity imports. Export taxes on several prod- ucts were also reduced at that time and were to be further reduced at a later date. In addition to a devaluation of the sucre and the introduction of a preannounced daily depreciation of the official exchange rate in February, Ecuador limited the transactions to be effected at the official rate to the following: (a) payments for the c. & f. value of certain imports; (b) specific debt service payments and public sector expenditures; and (c) specified expenses for invisibles. In addition, 70 percent— instead of the previous 100 percent—of proceeds from certain exports were required to be surren- dered in the official market. All other transactions were to be channeled through the free market. In February 1983 South Africa announced the abolish- ment of exchange control over nonresidents that resulted in the unification of the dual exchange rate system that had existed in one form or another since exchange control affecting nonresidents was first introduced in South Africa. Three members intensified their multiple cur- rency practices during the first quarter of 1983. Chile gave official recognition to its parallel ex- change market in March. In addition, the Chilean 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS authorities introduced a 12 percent tax on payments for specified imports. In March Rwanda adopted an advance import deposit scheme under which pur- chases of foreign exchange would be subject to the requirement of a non-interest-bearing deposit for nine months, equivalent to 100 percent or 50 percent of the value of the import. Venezuela adopted a three-tier exchange market system in March consisting of two fixed rates, Bs 4.30 = US$1 and Bs 6.0 = US$1, for specified transac- tions and a managed floating rate for tourism, private transfers, and capital flows. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements maintained be- tween Fund members constitute restrictions under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement to the extent that they involve exchange restrictions or multiple currency practices. A basic feature of bilateral payments arrangements, which gives rise to a restriction on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions, is that balances in the bilateral account, which is typically established to settle bilateral trade transac- tions, can be used only to make settlements be- tween the two partner countries and cannot be transferred into another currency or be used to make payments to a third country. Even where the transferability of balances in the bilateral account is allowed, an exchange restriction within the mean- ing of Article VIII, Section 2(a) may be involved if the period between transfers is undu ly long. A discriminatory currency arrangement within the ambit of Article VIII, Section 3 of the Fund's Articles may also be involved if credit balances in the bilateral account are not remunerated at the prevailing representative interest rate or if transfers of balances are made at exchange rates whose cross rate differentials exceed more than 1 percent. In September 1982 the Executive Board re- viewed the Fund's policy with respect to bilateral payments arrangements and the use of countertrade arrangements. The broad conclusions of this review were the following: (1) During the period 1976^81 further progress was made by Fund members in reducing their reliance on bilateral payments arrangements, as measured by the number of bilateral payments arrangements in force, by the total number of Fund members maintaining bilateral payments agree- ments, and by the estimated proportion of trade 44 conducted under such arrangements.25 The elimi- nation of bilateral payments agreements of Fund members with countries having centrally planned economies (including Fund members) has been somewhat slower. (2) The Fund's policy of not approving the maintenance of bilateral payments agreements and of encouraging their termination in the context of Article IV consultations has contributed to a decline in the use of bilateral payments arrangements. The approach set out in Executive Board Decision No. 955(59/45), adopted on October 23, 1959, remains appropriate; that is, that (a) there is no justification on balance of payments grounds for discrimination by members whose current receipts are largely in externally convertible currencies, (b) where such discriminatory restrictions have long been maintained, a reasonable amount of time may be needed to eliminate them, but this time should be short, and (c) in the case of payments relations with countries having centrally planned economies in which limitations exist on convertibility, the Fund would be prepared to consider whether balance of payments considerations would ju s t i fy the mainte- nance of some degree of discrimination. The number of members continuing to maintain bilateral payments arrangements at present suggests that the policy in (b) should continue to be implemented rigorously. (3) The Fund's policy on bilateral payments arrangements maintained between Fund members in the context of the use of its resources will be continued. Intentions with respect to bilateral pay- ments arrangements that are inconsistent with Arti- cle VIII will continue to be a performance criterion under upper credit tranche stand-by and extended arrangements of the Fund. Close attention will be paid to bilateral payments agreements maintained by Fund members that have concluded successive stand-by or extended arrangements, and these will be examined to ascertain whether or not balance of payments considerations jus t i fy more rapid prog- ress toward elimination of these arrangements in the context of subsequent programs supported by the member's use of Fund resources. 25 At the end of 1981, despite the increase in membership, 41 Fund members maintained one or more bilateral payments arrangements, compared with 56 at the end of 1975—the date of the previous review by the Fund. The total number of bilateral payments arrangements maintained by Fund members also declined over this period, to 149 from 220. Exports by Fund members to countries with which they have bilateral payments agreements are estimated to have fallen from 8.5 percent of total world exports in 1954 to 2 percent in 1964, and to less than V* of 1 percent in 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES (4) The Fund would continue to encourage members to terminate bilateral payments agree- ments that are inconsistent with Article VIII, including those that are maintained under the transitional provisions of Article XIV. Decisions by the Executive Board under Article VIII and Arti- cle XIV would continue to mention specifically such bilateral payments arrangements. As in the past this approach would apply to all members, including those with centrally planned economies. (5) The use of countertrade arrangements and their impact on the development of a multilateral system of trade and payments need to be kept under review. Should there be reason to believe that such arrangements are the cause of problems, the staff will, in the course of Article IV consultation discussions and discussions on the use of the Fund's resources, endeavor to collect relevant information and examine such practices as closely as possible in order to ascertain whether restrictive and dis- criminatory exchange measures subject to Arti- cle VIII are involved. The 1982 Annual Report on Exchange Ar- rangements and Exchange Restrictions noted that, during 1981, 4 bilateral payments agreements be- tween Fund members and 2 bilateral payments agreements between Fund members and non-Fund members were terminated, while a new agreement between a Fund member and a non-Fund member was concluded. At the beginning of 1982, bilateral payments agreements maintained between Fund members totaled 51, and the total number of bilateral payments agreements maintained between Fund members and non-Fund members was 98. There was a further decline in the number of bilateral payments agreements (including inopera- tive agreements) maintained between Fund mem- bers and between Fund members and non-Fund members in 1982. In March the People's Republic of China and the Syrian Arab Republic agreed to place payments on a convertible currency basis, with effect from January 1, 1983. The People's Republic of China also signed an agreement with Finland in June to terminate the bilateral payments agreement by the end of 1982. In June, Colombia terminated the bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia. In May, the inoperative bilateral pay- ments agreement between Egypt and Jordan was terminated. In March, Lebanon and Romania con- cluded an agreement to effect all payments in convertible currencies, and un t il the agreement is ratified by the two governments, all payments are being settled in convertible currencies. Several Fund members terminated bilateral payments agree- ments maintained with non-Fund members; these were between Morocco and the U .S .S .R ., Peru and Poland, Turkey and Albania, and Turkey and the U .S .S .R. During 1982 three bilateral payments agreements were concluded between Fund members. In April agreements were concluded between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan and between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Syrian Arab Republic and in June also between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey. At the time of joining the Fund on May 6, 1982, Hungary was maintain- ing 14 bilateral payments agreements—12 with Fund members and 2 with non-Fund members. Excluding the effect of Hungary's membership, the bilateral payments agreements maintained between Fund members at the end of 1982 totaled 50, and those maintained between Fund members and non- Fund members numbered 94. If the bilateral pay- ments agreements maintained by Hungary were to be included, the total number of agreements main- tained by Fund members would be 62, and the total number of agreements maintained between Fund members and non-Fund members would be 84. The decline in the reliance on bilateral payments agreements by Fund members since the mid-1970s has also been reflected in the number of agreements maintained by each member during 1976-82. Be- tween 1976 and 1982, the number of Fund mem- bers maintaining between 1 and 5 agreements remained unchanged at 23, whereas the number of Fund members maintaining between 6 and 9 agree- ments declined from 14 to 2, and the number of Fund members maintaining more than 9 agreements declined from 7 to 3 (including Hungary). Detailed information on the value of trade con- ducted under bilateral payments agreements is not available for most Fund members maintaining such arrangements. On the assumption that the value of trade between Fund members maintaining bilateral payments agreements represents the max imum value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements, the total value of such trade was equivalent to just under 1A of 1 percent of the value of world trade of Fund members in 1980. It is most likely that the value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements is considerably smaller than the above ratio suggests, because all trade between Fund members maintaining bilateral payments arrangements is not usually settled under the arrangements; in many instances, only the trade of a group of products specified in a trade agree- ment is settled under bilateral payments ar- rangements. A further refinement would be to make 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS an assessment of the trade-creating or trade- diverting effects on third countries. Such a calcula- tion is not possible in view of the paucity of data. In recent years, countertrade arrangements have become an increasingly important form of bilateral- ism.26 Countertrade refers to bilateral trading ar- rangements between foreign trade organizations or private firms in the exporting and importing coun- try, under which the seller is obligated to purchase, as a partial or total settlement for his merchandise exports, or in some instances sales of services in the form of technology and industrial licenses, specified goods or services from the importing country on a barter basis or during a specified period. Countertrade is generally motivated by the desire to economize on the use of convertible foreign exchange, to improve access to markets and maintain market shares, and to take advantage of credit facilities that may be available. Reliable estimates of trade conducted under countertrade arrangements are not often available because such arrangements are most often engaged in by ind i- vidual firms without the knowledge of the govern- ment, or in instances where governments engage in such arrangements and strategic goods are in- volved, trade data are not published. In some instances, the period of countertrade arrangements extends over several years so that estimation of the value of annual trade flows is also d i f f icu l t. Although countertrade arrangements may fa ll outside the Fund's jurisdiction if exchange restric- tions imposed by either of the respective national authorities are not involved, or are not otherwise subject to policies accompanying use of the Fund 's resources, the Fund is generally concerned w i th 26 The OECD has estimated that up to 15-20 percent of the trade between the East European and the West European countries is conducted under some form of countertrade arrangements. According to the Fund's Direction of Trade Statistics, Western industrial countries' exports to and imports from the East European countries in 1980 totaled US$80 billion. On the basis of the OECD estimate, the level of countertrade in East-West trade in 1980 would therefore have amounted to a maximum of some US$12-16 billion. In a recent study by the U.S. International Trade Commission, U .S. imports resulting from countertrade arrangements were es- timated to be US$279 million in 1980, of which about US$170 million were estimated to have been from the centrally planned economies. This study also concluded that the value of countertrade exports in most instances exceeded the value of countertrade imports since only a portion of the value of total U.S. countertrade exports is paid for w i th countertrade im- ports. Assuming the share of U.S. countertrade w i th devel- oping countries to be representative of other industrial coun- tries, global countertrade may be roughly estimated to be about 1 percent of world trade. This is larger than the estimated value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements noted above. 46 their proliferation because they may be seen as undermining the objective of the multilateral trad- ing system, the promotion of wh ich was a basic objective for the setting up of the Fund, and also because they share many of the microeconomic disadvantages that are common in bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Based on recent experience, some of the more common and serious disadvan- tages generally encountered in countertrade ar- rangements are (1) a limited choice of products or services that are available for trading at internation- ally competitive prices; (2) poor qua l i ty of goods; (3) the d iff icu l ty of marketing products that are not directly consumed by the buyer, especially when the seller places geographical or commercial re- strictions on the marketing of products; and (4) a higher product cost resulting from payments of commissions or fees to the middleman handling sales of products and from bridge financing that may be required owing to long delivery dates. Capital Flows In the postwar period there has been a gradual liberalization of international capital f lows, a trend that accelerated during the 1970s w i th the move toward more flexible exchange rate arrangements and the need to redistribute oil surpluses. While this enhanced freedom and mobility of capital move- ments has had clear economic advantages, it has also led to an increased sensitivity of funds to interest rate differentials and exchange rate expecta- tions. As a result, the emergence du r ing the recent past of significant real interest rate spreads among major financial markets has, along with rapidly changing exchange rate expectations, emphasized the interdependence of economic policy manage- ment. Continuing balance of payments d i f f icu l t ies in certain countries, especially developing coun- tries, have led to imposition of capital restrictions as part of a general reversion to exchange controls in these countries in recent years. There were several changes during the period under review relating to the international operations of banks in industrial countries. On balance, these actions served to facilitate the international mobility of capital. In January the National Bank of Austria renewed the regulation that foreign currency credits extended by domestic banks to nonresidents could not be higher than repayments in addition to 15 percent of corresponding credits outstanding at the end of 1981. In February the Belgium-Luxembourg Exchange Institute decreed that prior to March 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES all foreign exchange holdings in "regulated" ac- counts had to be either used or sold at the official exchange rate and, fur ther, that term deposits in these accounts beyond March 22 were no longer permitted. Rules governing "regulated" accounts were somewhat altered in April, to the effect that liquidation of these deposits would take place at the official exchange rate, w i th all exchange rate gains accruing to the Treasury, and that term deposits of up to one month were permitted provided that the owner of the account had no outstanding exchange obligations in the official market fa l l ing due during the term of the deposit. In June it was announced that with immediate effect diplomatic and interna- tional staff in Belgium could, subject to m in imal conditions, again deposit their salaries in a special convertible account. The ECU operations of com- mercial banks in France were simplified in May by the decision that the ECU, including its French franc component, was to be treated as a foreign currency. In January Japan announced a scheme whereby the Ministry of Finance would provide, from its foreign exchange fund special account, U .S. dollar financing for emergency imports judged to be conducive to an easing of trade fr ic t ions, up to a total of US$500 m i l l ion. In April the Ministry increased, as a result of its regular review, yen- dollar swap limits for foreign banks operating in Japan, and in May priority categories for long-term overseas yen lending by banks were removed. Under revised bank rules, Japanese banks could, after June, open two additional overseas branch offices in the two fiscal years 1981/82 and 1982/83. In January Sweden permitted funds deposited in foreign exchange accounts to be placed in interest- bearing accounts with other authorized banks. Switzerland, with effect from October 28 permitted foreign banks to take up subparticipations in Swiss franc bond issues and in U .S. dollar bond issues with ("dual currency bonds") or w i thout a Swiss franc link. Measures taken by industrial countries in the area of portfolio investment tended to liberalize inflows and to restrict outflows. Among the liberalizing measures, with effect from January 1983, Japan altered procedures for the issuance of yen- denominated bonds, subs t i tu t ing a quarterly is- suance program for an annual queu ing system. The Netherlands in early January abolished a regulation stipulating that without specific licenses residents would not be permitted to purchase unlisted foreign fixed-interest securities that were denominated in guilders at the time of placement. In February Norway abolished the limit of NKr 1 m i l l ion on purchases of Norwegian quoted shares by nonresi- dents. In April Switzerland, in permitting the placement of a bond issue by the World Bank, departed from existing regulations in that it offered an exchange guarantee; the bonds had a maturity of seven years rather than the officially required minimum of nine years; it permitted foreign banks to be underwriters; and the bonds were listed on both the London and Swiss exchanges. In Ju ly Switzerland further relaxed restrictions on the placement and trading of medium-term negotiable paper. The limit beyond which the placement of notes would require authorization from the National Bank was raised, the m in imum maturity for both foreign Swiss franc bond other negotiable paper issues was lowered and conditions for advance repayment of notes were relaxed. Among the limited number of restrictive mea- sures taken by industrial countries with respect to portfolio investment, in February the Bank of Norway set an upper limit on short-term borrowing abroad, by most Norwegian commercial enterprises in 1982. In August Spain temporarily suspended a 1979 decree liberalizing portfolio investment abroad, announcing that for a period of six months prior authorization would be required to transfer funds abroad for foreign portfolio investment. During 1982 the limited number of actions taken by industrial countries in the area of direct invest- ment were, in the main, towards liberalization. In June Canada announced that the administrative procedures of the Foreign Investment Review Act (FIRA) would be simplified in various ways. In Ju ly Denmark raised the limit beyond which indi- vidual transactions and remittances would be sub- ject to exchange regulations and increased limits applicable to both outward and inward direct investment. In conjunction with measures that made it more d iff icu lt for individuals to gain nonresident status and to transfer capital abroad, France in March required that all direct investment in excess of F 1 million be financed abroad. In August Italy required Italian companies to obtain prior approval to set up an overseas financial holding. The decree also established notification requirements for any participation exceeding 10 percent by a resident in a foreign holding company. The Netherlands in January discontinued the re- quirement that no net capital importation should result from financial guarantees for borrowings by nonresidents. In February the limit on outward transfers for the purpose of purchasing real estate for recreational purposes was increased by Norway from NKr 350,000 to NKr 400,000 a fam i ly. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Among developing countries that relaxed restric- tions affecting capital flows through the banking system, Antigua and Barbuda announced a decision to encourage the development of offshore banking in its territory. In June interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts were introduce^ in Bangladesh. Brazil announced that foreign cur- rency deposits made after June 17 would be exempt from regulations pertaining to the payments of principal, interest, and commissions. Colombia in February required that official authorization be obtained by mining companies to open foreign exchange accounts for the settlement of expenses incurred abroad. In April the maximum amount of foreign assets that commercial banks in Colombia could legally hold was fixed at 10 percent of the bank's foreign liabilities. In March Egypt autho- rized commercial banks to open import accounts in foreign currency in the names of Egyptian nation- als. El Salvador in November extended access to special foreign currency deposit accounts to certain categories of foreign exchange proceeds accruing to residents, and to the staff of embassies, consulates, and international organizations; the use of these accounts is subject to certain limitations. In the period from May to Ju ly, Israel lowered the interest surcharge on foreign currency loans obtained from local banks from 7 percent to 1 percent in several steps, and over the same period reduced the compulsory deposit requirement with respect to direct foreign currency borrowing from abroad by nonbank residents from 30 percent to 5 percent of the value of the loan. A 2 percent surcharge was introduced in June on the proceeds from the sale of domestically traded securities by residents or non- residents and on the proceeds from the sale of foreign trade securities by residents. Investment trust funds, excepting purchasing and sales or trust fund securities by the Bank of Israel, were in general made exempt from the surcharge. In Jan- uary Malaysia granted permission to banks to lend foreign currency to residents and to accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents. In April the Bank of Mexico announced that forward cover arrangements had been extended to the general financing requirements of enterprises. Mexican banks were authorized in August to open accounts in foreign currencies for embassies, consulates, international organizations, and resident foreigners working for these organizations. However, follow- ing the nationalization of the private banking system on September 1, the Banco Internacional was designated as the only bank authorized to open such accounts. In October Mexican enterprises with 48 obligations abroad were authorized to open ac- counts in the name of their creditors abroad. In November Mexico authorized the remittance of funds to repay deposits denominated in foreign currency held by foreign banks with local banks; these transfers were permitted on a monthly basis on the condition that no transfer would exceed one sixth of the total amount outstanding on Novem- ber 1. In December the Bank of Mexico issued detailed regulations with regard to the establish- ment of accounts by foreign commercial banks for settlements of interest payments on foreign obliga- tions by local private sector borrowers to be determined monthly. In January Morocco an- nounced that interest payable on foreign accounts in convertible dirhams would not be subject to with- holding tax. In September Papua New Guinea authorized commercial banks to borrow offshore for on-lending to exporters, provided that the commercial banks did not assume the exchange risk. In March the Philippines authorized offshore banking units to sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank for pesos. The Central Bank of Somalia in February authorized livestock exporters to open U .S. dollar external accounts. In June Turkey authorized a number of domestic banks to increase their foreign exchange reserves to 10 percent of the foreign exchange received from exports and invisible transactions in the previous year. Several developing countries took measures that tightened their regulations with respect to capital flows through the banking system. In November Bolivia required that all bank deposits and loans be denominated in pesos. Botswana in May lowered the limit below which loan financing could be provided by commercial banks to nonresident com- panies. In October Greece required that foreign exchange sold for transfer abroad on behalf of nationals working overseas be recorded in the passport of the recipient. On August 12 Mexico announced that all deposits with Mexican banks denominated in foreign currencies would be pay- able only in local currencies and not, as was the previous practice, in foreign currency. Since Sep- tember, accounts opened in, and loans granted by, the banking system could no longer be denominated in foreign currencies, with specific exceptions mainly for diplomats and foreign correspondents, and for export, bonded, and tourist industries. With effect also from September, Mexican financial institutions were prohibited from making payments abroad in pesos. The Bank of Mexico in October permitted enterprises in border areas and free zones ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES to maintain foreign exchange accounts for specified purposes if the domestic value added of these enterprises amounted to at least 30 percent of gross sales. After December commercial banks were not permitted to credit the special compensatory ac- counts of export and tourist companies if this would permit the holder of the account to increase his purchases of foreign exchange. In May Yugoslavia introduced a regulation on the disposal and use of foreign currency earnings, and on external borrow- ing, under which medium-term and long-term borrowing was subject to the approval of the National Bank, and short-term borrowing, to the approval of the Federal Executive Council. The United Arab Emirates in March raised deposit margins for loans denominated in foreign currency to be maintained with the Central Bank. A number of developing countries took measures relating to portfolio and direct investments. In April Argentina announced that amortization and interest payments with respect to foreign debt could not be made more than two days prior to the due date and suspended the right to transfer profits and to repatriate investments. Foreign obligations arising from profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance were required to be paid with U .S. dollar-denominated bonds (BONEX) issued by the Government of Argentina. In April the Central Bank of Argentina also announced that no external payment commitment could be entered into without its prior consent. In May the Central Bank resumed swap operations with the private sector that had been suspended since late December 1981, and in July the Central Bank announced that it would undertake swaps against loan proceeds surrendered in the financial market after July 6. In December the requirement was introduced that these swaps on maturity had to be rolled over for a period of at least 90 days and had to carry a guaranteed exchange rate, a maximum maturity period of 180 days, and a maximum charge of 6 percent a month. In July the Central Bank introduced an exchange rate guaran- tee scheme for financial loans negotiated prior to July 6. To be eligible for this guarantee, the debtor had to secure an extension of the maturity of the loan for at least one year. Loans covered under previous guarantee schemes could, upon maturity, be brought under the new scheme provided that a further extension of its maturity for a minimum of one year was obtained. In mid-July the scheme was extended to cover import payments contracted before July 2 provided that the importer secured a new loan for an equivalent amount; concurrently the scheme was extended to trade financing re- lated to imports and to interest payments accruing through December 31 on loans carrying an ex- change rate guarantee. In August payment of interest on foreign loans that had accrued through July 2 and for which an exchange application was pending on that date was permitted without prior authorization from the Central Bank, provided that the debtor obtained an extension of maturity for at least one year. Principal payments on foreign loans for which an exchange application was pending on July 2 could still be effected through the purchase of BONEX bonds provided that the counterpart in pesos was paid to an authorized agency by August 6; otherwise such principal payments could be made only at the current exchange rate and would require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. On November 17 the Central Bank required that all external loans carrying an exchange rate guarantee issued by the Central Bank during 1981 be rescheduled and established the minimum terms for that rescheduling. Interest on these loans contin- ued to be fu l ly transferable. The rescheduling requirements did not apply in cases where the domestic borrower had, by October 22, obtained a voluntary extension of the loan and a new exchange rate guarantee under the scheme established in July. In November payments of amortization with respect to private sector foreign borrowing were made subject to prior central bank approval, although the automaticity of transfers of interest payments was retained; previously all such payments could be effected automatically. In August Algeria relaxed regulations concerning repatriation of earnings and royalties of joint ventures. In late December Brazil announced that a tax credit had been introduced for nonresidents converting their loans into invest- ments. In January the People's Republic of China introduced regulations concerning offshore petro- leum operations with foreign enterprises and in March commenced foreign exchange lending at favorable interest rates, for development of certain industrial sectors. In February Colombia permitted companies operating in specific sectors to contract foreign loans provided that the maturity of the loan exceeded five years and that the amount did not exceed 80 percent of the total cost of the project to be financed. Colombia in March announced that the repatriation of profits of Andean Pact enterprises would be free, provided that 80 percent of the capital of the enterprises was held by residents of the countries of the area. With effect from Ju ly, Colombia permitted the registration of foreign loans to residents for domestic investment purposes. In December limits were introduced on foreign bor- 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rowings of Colombian textile enterprises. In De- cember Hungary permitted participation by foreign companies in joint ventures in duty-free zones. These ventures would remain foreign entities for legal purposes and benefit from preferential treat- ment with respect to customs clearance and duties, and foreign exchange regulations. The Reserve Bank of India liberalized and simplified, in April, August, and December facilities whereby nonresi- dent Indians make direct and portfolio investments in debentures and preferred shares issued by Indian companies. Moreover, companies and partnerships in which nonresident Indians have at least a 60 percent share participation were permitted to open nonresident External Accounts and Foreign Cur- rency Accounts at authorized dealers. In August Israel lifted the freeze on foreign currency borrow- ings with maturities of less than 30 months by nonbank residents; in addition, these loans were exempted from compulsory deposit requirements. Concurrently, suppliers' credits guaranteed by foreign financial entities were exempted from regu- lations governing direct foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank residents. Malta in November abolished provision for foreign portfolio invest- ments abroad by residents up to an annual limit. In September Mexico announced that all capital held abroad could be freely repatriated. In December the Bank of Mexico announced that foreign exchange would be provided by the Bank for the repayment of foreign debt obligations outstanding as of De- cember 1 at a guaranteed exchange rate; only medium-term and long-term debts were declared eligible for this facility. For access to forward cover all debts were required to be registered. Exporters were permitted to retain up to 20 percent of foreign exchange proceeds for the repayment of obligations that were outstanding prior to the issuance of the new decree. With effect from January, Pakistan suspended forward cover for imports financed by aid and by credits provided by the State Bank; in April forward cover facilities were extended again to imports in the latter category and, for a period not exceeding six months, were extended to com- panies for the repatriation of foreign currency loans approved by the State Bank. In February the Philippines granted priority in its approval proce- dures for foreign borrowing to projects in food, energy, exports, infrastructure, transportation, and communication. Portugal announced in May that the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments would be freely permitted, provided that the conditions established under the initial investment authorization had been met. On October 1 Rwanda suspended until further notice the outward transfer of proceeds from the sale of real estate. In August Uganda lifted all restrictions on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals. It was further stipulated that new contracts between companies holding external accounts and the Government would be guaranteed fu ll repatriation of profits, dividends, and debt service payments. In April Argentina and the United Kingdom temporarily suspended the use and transferability of each other's financial assets. These financial re- strictions were removed by both countries in September. Gold There were few changes in regulations governing ownership or trade in gold during 1982. The value- added tax on transactions in monetary gold in Belgium was reduced from 6 percent to 1 percent. The export of gold was made subject to prior licensing by the Bank of Mexico. Purchases of gold and gold coins by central banks for delivery in Switzerland were exempted from the 5.6 percent Swiss retail sales tax. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen raised the permissible limits for imports of gold ornaments, and some ornaments were made duty free. In Zaire purchases of gold mined by small-scale producers were restricted to special agents authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Gold traders other than members of the Gold Exchange of Singapore were prohibited from trad- ing in the Singapore Gold Market, and gold deposits held by foreigners who were neither resident nor domiciled in Singapore were no longer liable to estate duty. The People's Republic of China issued gold bullion coins for sale abroad, initially in Japan and Hong Kong. IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements During the period under review, developments in regional economic cooperation involved mainly efforts to strengthen and expand existing regional arrangements. Negotiations continued on the acces- sion of Portugal and Spain to the EC. At the sixth ministerial meeting to negotiate for Portugal's accession in February, basic agreements were reached on capital movements, economic and fi- 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS nancial affairs, regional policy, transport, and its participation in the European Atomic Energy Com- munity (EURATOM). In subsequent ministerial meetings in June and September, basic agreements were also reached on the transitional period for the establishment of the customs union, the introduc- tion of the value-added tax, and direct investment in Portugal by other member states. As regards the negotiations between Spain and the EC, at the tenth ministerial meeting on March 22, agreement was reached on the first six chapters of the accession negotiations covering capital movements, eco- nomic and financial questions, right of establish- ment and freedom to provide services, transport, regional policy, and harmonization of laws. At the twelfth ministerial meeting, progress was made in the negotiations on customs union and the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). New financial protocols to the cooperation agree- ments between the EC and Morocco, Jordan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, and Tunisia were signed in May, June, and Oc- tober. The protocols provide for Community aid retroactively from November 1, 1981 to Octo- ber 30, 1986. During the year, the special trade arrangements applied by the EC to Cyprus and Malta were both extended until June 30, 1983, pending new negotiations. The Council of Ministers of the ACP (African, Caribbean, and Pacific States)27 and EC held their seventh meeting in Libreville, Gabon, in May, to discuss the operations of the second Lome Conven- tion. Discussions continued on STABEX (the EC's export shortfall compensatory financing scheme), in particular the shortfall in resources for 1981, the sugar protocol, and financial and technical coopera- tion. There were also talks on trade, and industrial and agricultural cooperation. During 1982, Antigua 27The 63 ACP states, which are associated with the EC, are divided into the following categories by Lome II: (1) the least developed countries—Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa; (2) the island and land-locked countries—Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bar- bados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu, Zaire, Zambia, and Zim- babwe; (3) others—Belize, Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. and Barbuda, Belize, and Zimbabwe acceded to the Lome Convention. The annual (or in some instances six-monthly) meetings of the joint committees responsible for the management of the free trade agreements between the EEC and EFTA countries28 were held in June and December. The committees noted that, in all countries, the agreements were in general operating satisfactorily. Individual areas of improvement were also discussed. The EC-Romania joint committee met on De- cember 2-3 to review the operations of the 1980 trade agreement. The two parties decided to start discussions at expert level of a more comprehensive agreement on economic cooperation. Simulta- neously, discussions would be held on expanding the number of items included under the present trade agreement. A framework agreement for cooperation between the EC and Brazil entered into effect on October 1. The agreement, which had a five-year initial dura- tion, replaced the 1974 trade agreement and aims at providing a more stable institutional context to the relationship between the two parties. It was de- signed to encourage the expansion of commercial cooperation in general between the two parties and to develop economic cooperation through a joint committee established for this purpose. Representatives of the EC and the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)29 met on various occasions during the year to discuss prog- ress made in cooperation projects undertaken under the aegis of their cooperation agreement signed in 1980. At the meeting of the EC-China joint com- mittee on November 11-12, the two parties noted consensus on renewing the current agreement that was to expire on May 31, 1983. A widening of the scope of the agreement for 1982 by the inclusion of some ten new products in the liberalization list and increases in a number of quotas was also announced at the meeting. The annual summit conference of the Economic Community of West African States (EcowAS)30 was held in Cotonou, Benin, during May 28-29, 1982. At the center of the discussion were trade issues, in particular the question whether Article 20 28Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Spain; Finland is an associate member. 29Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. 30The members of ECOWAS are Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of the Treaty of Lagos, which concerns the accord- ing of most-favored-nation treatment within ECOWAS, should be suspended for the members of the West African Economic Community (WAEC)31 and the Mano River Union. A special ministerial committee was convened to make rec- ommendations to be discussed during the next summit meeting. Also discussed was the protocol on the definition of community enterprises, which had been agreed earlier in the year. For technical reasons, this was not approved, thus further postponing the lifting of all tariffs on intracommu- nity trade in goods from community enterprises, which was to have taken effect on May 28, 1981. The heads of state approved the creation of an Energy Resources Development Fund within the ECOWAS Fund, to which member states would contribute voluntarily. The heads of state of the WAEC met in Yamous- soukro, Ivory Coast, in late December. The discus- sions centered on efforts to satisfy the needs of the populations of member countries for water re- sources, mass transport systems, and health and education. On the same occasion, the heads of state of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU)32 met to discuss issues of common interest. The final communique indicated that work progressed on a regional strategy toward the improvement of finan- cial and economic conditions of the member coun- tries. A decision on the admission of Mali into the WAMU was postponed until a later date. The African and Mauritian Common Organiza- tion (AMCO)33 also convened a summit meeting in Yamoussoukro in late December. The heads of state decided to continue their support of AMCO and to discuss its structure and objectives at the following meeting. The Senegambia Confederation, uniting Senegal with The Gambia, took effect on February 1. Both countries retain their sovereignty under the terms of the union, but will develop joint policies for defense, foreign affairs, finance, and customs. On July 2, the two Governments signed three protocols covering confederate institutions, financial regula- tions, and external relations policies. Work con- tinues on the other aspects of the union. 31 The members are Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 32Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 33Benin, Central African Republic, Mauritius, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 52 The Niger Basin Authority34 met in Niamey during May 10-13 to continue elaborating the general nature of its activities to realize the objec- tives of the Authority, which are to harmonize and coordinate national development policies; formu- late a general development policy for the Basin; to elaborate and implement an integrated development plan for the Basin; to initiate and monitor an orderly and rational regional policy for the utilization of the waters of the Niger River; and to carry out studies and to elaborate projects. A summit of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)35 took place during December 17-18 in Yaounde, Cameroon. The heads of state decided in principle to include Equatorial Guinea as a member of the UDEAC. At a previous meeting of the UDEAC in December 1981, the President of Gabon had invited other states in the region to join the four existing members to set up a "major economic community." The first meeting of an ad hoc committee,36 charged with elaborating the institutional framework and the legal texts for setting up a possible Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) was held in Libreville, Gabon, on May 24. At the annual meeting of the African Devel- opment Bank (AfDB), the decision to allow non- African countries to subscribe to the capital of the institution was ratified. This would allow a substan- tial increase in its capital. Since March 1980, the Governments of Australia and New Zealand had been working toward a new agreement to supersede the 1966 New Zealand/ Australia Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Pro- posals outlining the basis for the new arrangement were made public by the two Governments in June 1982 and on December 14 an agreement was signed. The Closer Economic Relations (CER) trade agreement went into effect on January 1, 1983. With the exception of a limited number of products for which the liberalization formulas will be temporarily deferred or otherwise modified, all 34Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, and Upper Volta. 35Cameroon, Central African Republic, the Congo, and Gabon. 36 Participating in the meeting were representatives from Angola, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Sao Tome and Principe, Zaire, Rwanda, Burundi, Gabon, the Development Bank of Central African States, the Bank of Central African States, UDEAC, and the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS tariffs between the two countries would be elimi- nated within a 1-5 year period, depending on the initial tariff level in each case. All import restric- tions and tariff quotas for most goods in Trans- Tasman trade, with the same exception, would be eliminated. For each product grouping, the access limit would be increased by 15 percent in real terms, annually, until the access limit reaches $NZ 1 million, and by 10 percent thereafter; access will be completely liberalized by 1995. The agree- ment also contains provisions pertaining to, inter alia, export incentives, agricultural support and stabilization measures, safeguards, and government purchases. Both countries, under the agreement, retain the freedom to conduct their own trade policies with third countries. The South Pacific Forum37 held its thirteenth meeting in Rotorua, New Zealand, in August. On economic matters, the Forum affirmed the commit- ment to develop the fisheries resources of member states for the benefit of their people. At the meeting, the Federated States of Micronesia were made full members of the Forum Fisheries Agency. The question of establishing a Pacific Islands Fund for loans to island nations was postponed pending further study. During 1982, two countries, Vanuatu and Nauru, became signatories to the South Pacific Region- al Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA). SPARTECA, which entered into force on January 1, 1981, provides for nonreciprocal duty-free, unrestricted or concessional access to the markets of New Zealand and Australia for a wide range of products imported from signatory countries. Member countries of the ASEAN continued to expand the scope of their Preferential Trading Arrangement during 1982. In January, the number of items subject to the arrangement was increased to 8,529, with the addition of 1,948 new items. Moreover, the ceiling on annual import values of items which are subject to a 20-25 percent tariff cut was raised in steps from US$500,000 at the beginning of the year to US$10 million at the November meeting of the Ministers of Finance. At the November meeting, the Ministers of Finance also signed an agreement on ASEAN Industrial Joint Ventures. Such joint ventures should involve private sector cooperation between at least two 37Composed of Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ASEAN countries and require a minimum ASEAN ownership of 51 percent. Products of industrial joint ventures are assured access to all ASEAN countries, and would be given substantial margins of tariff preference. The ministers also agreed to deepen the tariff cuts on nonfood items already under the preferential trading agreement, and on future exchanges, to a maximum of 50 percent. The ASEAN swap arrangement, which allows credit to be obtained by a member country facing temporary liquidity problems, was extended for another five years from February 1982. The heads of state of the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)38 held their second annual meeting in Bahrain on November 9. At the previous meeting in November 1981, a unified economic agreement, calling for unification and coordination of economic policies, had been ap- proved. According to this agreement, customs duties on intra-GCC trade in manufactured goods were to be abolished on December 1, 1982. At the November meeting, however, it was decided to postpone the elimination of customs duties until March 1983. The ministers approved the formation of a Gulf Organization for Investment (GOI), which would have a capital of US$2,100 million, with shares equally divided between the six member states. In the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA),39 which superseded the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) in 1980, progress was made in renegotiating the trade preferences originally negotiated under LAFTA. A high level meeting of government representatives in June reaffirmed the intention of the member countries to put the regional preferential arrangements into effect as soon as possible. At the meeting of the thirty-fourth Andean Pact Commission,40 held in Lima from March 17-19, agreement was reached on new rules for multina- tional Andean corporations. Such corporations would be required to have at least 80 percent Andean ownership. Corporations that would be set up in Bolivia and Ecuador would be allowed a gradual reduction of maximum foreign ownership from 40 percent to 20 percent. 38 Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. 39Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 40 Members of the Andean Pact are Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The heads of government of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) met at Ocho Rios, Jamaica, in November, for the first time in seven years. At the same time, the heads of state of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)41 met for their second meeting since the organization was established in 1981. At the OECS meeting, plans were approved for the conversion of the East Caribbean Currency Authority into a fu l ly fledged 41 Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. central bank. It was hoped that the change would take effect from April 1983. The heads of state also agreed to adopt a coordinated stance in negotiations over marine boundaries with neighboring countries and to investigate the possible presence of oil in the region. The Government of the United States continued work on the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI), which is expected to provide duty-free access, on a unilateral basis, for virtually all goods from the Caribbean area, as well as investment incentives and an aid package of some US$350 million. The CBI was not passed by Congress during 1982. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two Part Two gives a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of individual member countries, includ- ing two nonmetropolitan territories. The exchange and trade system of one other country, wh ich is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1982, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place early in 1983. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes during 1982. The description of the restrictive system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Re- ports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes during 1982" includes references to certain devel- opments that may have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line w i th the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1982, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions w i th other coun- tries. Where a country has concluded payments agree- ments w i th other countries, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the coun- tries concerned. The countries w i th wh ich bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that coun try, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described b r ie f ly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indi- cates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," wh ich may be given either f ree ly, or restrictively, according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described b r ie f ly, together w i th any l im i ta- tions on the export of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose l im i ta t ions on payments for invisibles, this section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, w i th an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usua l ly at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- erning exchange derived from transactions in inv is ib les are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. . The coverage under Capital describes the special arrangements or l im i ta t ions attached to international capital movements. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usua l ly dealt w i th in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the principal regulations that govern the ho ld ing, negotiation, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. In this Report, references to "Taiwan" are to the Taiwan Province of Ch ina. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an offi- cial rate applied to (a) foreign exchange proceeds from exports of natural gas, karakul, cotton, and wool; (b) transactions for Government and authorized transactions for public enterprises; (c) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see Proceeds from Invis- ibles, below); and (d) all transactions in accounting units specified under bilateral payments agreements. Transac- tions by Da Afghanistan Bank and the commercial banks in convertible exchange not subject to the official rate are undertaken at a separate operational rate more depre- ciated than the official rate. Both rates are defined in terms of the U.S. dollar and are flexible; on Decem- ber 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates were AF 50.00 and AF 51.20, respectively, per US$1, and the dual buying and selling rates in the second market were AF 55.00 and AF 56.25, respectively, per US$1. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their value relative to the U.S. dollar in international markets and the local bazaar foreign exchange market (see below). Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. Proceeds of raisin exports to the U .S .S .R. (other than those by agricultural cooperatives) that are sold to the Da Afghanistan Bank are subject to an exchange surcharge of 7 percent; the surcharge is refunded if the exporter should within one year buy back the foreign exchange to pay for imports from the U .S .S .R. Transactions which are not required to be effected with the banks may take place in the bazaar foreign exchange market, where the rates are more depreciated than those maintained by the banks. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large com- panies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. The proceeds 'People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and U .S .S .R. from exports of wool and cotton to other countries and of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transac- tions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for com- modities to be traded. Most of the trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports made against exports proceeds subject to surrender requirements (i.e., from natural gas, cotton, and wool) are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are allocated for servicing of the Govern- ment's external debt. The present customs tariff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates, ad valorem and specific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 percent and 35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collec- tion, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Generally, a deposit of up to 40 percent of the c.i.f. value is required by banks from private enterprises upon opening of a letter of credit. Foreign exchange for payments for imports by the private sector has to be acquired in the bazaar market. Payments for Invisibles Tourists are permitted to take out up to US$2,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies. When foreign travel is for other purposes, the permissible amounts are determined by the appropriate authorities; in each case, permission from the central bank or one of the commer- cial banks is necessary for taking out foreign currency. Exchange for private travel has to be acquired in the bazaar market. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel and Af 1,000 to AF 2,500 for other types of travel. Export by travelers of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent is 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN permitted only if the foreign exchange has been bought from the banking system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement countries, are received in convertible cur- rencies. Receipts from exports of natural gas, karakul, cotton, and wool are subject to surrender requirements and are exchanged at the official rate. Other export receipts in convertible exchange are exchanged at the operational rate, but exporters may retain such exchange to pay for imports of tea, matches, soap, textiles, edible oils, and motor oils. Da Afghanistan Bank buys foreign exchange from exports to bilateral payments agreement countries, purchasing up to 50 percent of exports proceeds from individuals and up to 70 percent from commercial institutions. An export tax of Af 50 a ton is levied on exports of raisins to the People's Republic of China and Czechoslovakia. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan may not bring in more than AF 1,000 in Afghan bank notes. They may, however, bring in any amount in foreign currency but should declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Commit- tee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemp- tion from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and de- partments of their requirements from enterprises estab- lished under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can only take place through joint ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 percent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The surcharge of 5 percent on specified bank sales of convertible foreign exchange and the subsidy of 5 percent on specified bank purchases of convertible foreign exchange were eliminated. January 26. A second (operational) exchange rate was introduced for specified transactions in convertible for- eign exchange by the banks. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and other specified currencies1 are estab- lished by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a fixed relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians working abroad. The premium is adjusted so as to ensure that the exchange rate for such remittances is DA 1 = F 1. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are re- quired to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive premium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the exchange legisla- tion and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce within the limits of a general import program. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Trans- port, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over im- ports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products and handles most exports of these commodities. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no payments agreements are in force are made in convertible curren- cies. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U .S. dollars of account. Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Algerian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months from the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts is not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened prior to January 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those under supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such ac- counts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for payments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin, and also for nonresident nationals. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real 2Algeria maintains payments agreements with Albania, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and U .S .S .R. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a notary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- devises). Depositors receive a premium equivalent, in principle, to one eighth of the amounts deposited; in practice, the premium is a flexible one ensuring an effective conversion rate of DA 1 = F 1. Withdrawals may be made only in Algerian dinars. 4. Convertible Dinar Accounts for Nonresident Algerians were introduced in January 1980 as a means of attracting deposit funds from Algerian workers abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978 gives the Government a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import program. This is implemented mainly through global import authorizations (autorisations globales d'importa- tion, or AGI) granted to public enterprises. There are three types of import authorizations: (1) AGI Monopole, issued to enterprises holding monopoly rights to import specified commodities; (2) AGI de fonctionnement in- terne, issued to individual enterprises for import require- ments relating to their production activity; and (3) AGI objectif planifie, issued to enterprises for imports relat- ing to their investment program. Imports not involving use of official foreign exchange (sans paiemenf) and not subject to any specific prohibition are exempt from all exchange and trade control formalities when valued at DA 5,000 or less. All imports must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Without a waiver from the exchange control authority (the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank), advance payments may not exceed 15 percent of the import value. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured domestically. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting docu- ments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Admin- istration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments 60 for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises), may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of family remittances is suspended. Insurance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian residents must be purchased in Algeria. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 55 percent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 75 percent for persons having their families abroad; and 85 percent for employees of mines and the hydrocarbon sector working in the southern regions. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 35 percent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria and 55 percent for persons having their families abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. For resident nationals and individuals of foreign nationality in resident status (excluding those having an entitlement to make transfers) traveling by air or sea to foreign countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, other than for medical reasons, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 1,000 a person a calendar year (DA 500 for children under 15 years) and is delivered on presentation of a valid passport and travel vouchers; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 1,000 a person a calendar semester for adults and DA 500 for children under 15 years. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad receive a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are re- quired to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive premium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may upon return abroad repurchase foreign exchange equivalent to one fifth of the amount sold upon arrival, but not exceeding DA 1,000. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an alloca- tion in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allow- ance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency declared upon entry. However, on their arrival in Algeria, nonresidents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets which are bought by nonresidents for traveling abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and ma- chinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports require license, except those undertaken by state enterprises having a monopoly right to export. Some commodities may be exported, subject to individual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 78-02 of Febru- ary 11, 1978, which conferred upon, the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may only be effected by public sector entities, unless a waiver is granted for a transitional period on a case-by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after collection. Unless a waiver is granted by the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank of Algeria, the time limit for repatriation of export proceeds is 60 days from the date of shipment. However, for exports of hydrocarbons, the time limit is a maximum of 30 days after the completion of loading. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price a barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. Savings repatriated in the form of convert- ible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes, coin (except gold coin), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travel- ers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any desti- nation are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside ALGERIA Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such invest- ments will be permitted up to 15 percent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvestment profits, and the repatriation of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transforma- tion de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement May 8. The regulation on the exchange premium was modified; such that on each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad would be required to ex- change an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the date the transaction takes place. Payments for Invisibles February 1. The annual foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad was increased from DA 300 to DA 1,000. April 13. A regulation took effect under which nonresident foreign individuals must, upon arrival in Algeria, convert foreign exchange equivalent to a mini- mum of DA 1,000. In addition, travel tickets bought in Algeria by nonresident individuals or legal persons for travel abroad were required to be paid with imported for- eign exchange other than the minimum DA 1,000 equiv- alent mentioned above. The obligation to convert foreign 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000 and to purchase travel tickets with imported foreign exchange would not apply to certain categories of nonresident foreign persons listed in the above-mentioned decision of April 13, 1982. Capital August 28. A law concerning the establishment and operation of joint ventures came into force, providing, inter alia, for (a) a guarantee of return prorated on the basis of the foreign partner's share of the equity of the joint venture. The foreign partner would receive an additional return, regardless of the venture's overall performance, to compensate him for his actual efforts and actual contribution in terms of transfer of technol- ogy, in a manner to be prescribed by the implementing provisions. The additional return would be exempt from all taxes and fully transferable, (b) Tax exemptions on industrial and commercial profits over the first three years, a 50 percent reduction for the fourth year, and a 25 percent reduction for the fifth year on their tax returns; (c) reduced rates of taxation on reinvested industrial and commercial profits; and (d) permission for the foreign partner to export his earnings and, if the joint venture is dissolved or his equity transferred, or in case of nationalization, to re-export the proceeds from such a transaction as well as any portion of profits not yet reinvested. Except where the above-mentioned law was applicable, the export of such earnings would be gov- erned by the applicable legislation. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East Caribbean Dollar,2 which is issued by the East Carib- bean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and ECS2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 percent; the minimum levy is EC$1 a transaction. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licensing is required for a range of products, particularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Commission of Inland Revenue under the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)3 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency requested, but American servicemen and employees of the U.S. Government and international agencies only need the authorized commer- cial bank's approval. A few residents—firms and indi- viduals—are also allowed to open external accounts. External accounts can be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and with transfers from other External Accounts but not with payments by residents. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a quarterly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license 'Antigua and Barbuda became a member of the Fund on Febru- ary 25, 1982. 2 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 3The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. granted by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the new CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Authority is delegated to commercial banks to endorse application forms for import licenses after confirming sight of documents. Imports that are exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions, for machinery, equipment, and raw materials, are granted on a case-by-case basis and generally under the Fiscal Incentives Act and the Hotel Incentives Act. Import duties range from 5 percent to 40 percent and are scheduled to be brought into line with the 35 percent CARICOM common external tariff by the end of 1982. All imports are subject to a stamp duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from au- thorized banks up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the East Caribbean Currency Area; however, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Minis- try of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago cur- rency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical expenses. Official authorization is required beyond these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually exempted from the foreign exchange levy. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. No surrender of export proceeds is required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax as they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged. U.S. and Canadian currency for checks and drafts for U.S. or Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction and with no levy; for amounts over US$1,000 Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for trans- fers for charity purposes are exempted from all other levies. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital move- ments. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Act and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold, Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine Peso. The exchange rate for the peso in terms of U.S. dollars is announced on a daily basis by the Central Bank and adjusted in accordance with relative price movements and overall balance of payments objectives. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 the closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $a 48,570 per US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 0.6 percent. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers; such operations must be related to trade transactions. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Re- public, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks con- cerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Argen- tina and Cuba maintain a reciprocal credit arrangement by means of special accounts in each central bank, through which transactions between the two countries are settled; the limit under these accounts is US$10 million. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be made in any convertible currency. All imports by the private sector require a sworn Declaration of Need to Import (Declaration Jurada de Necesidad de Importation) submitted by the importer to the National Import Directorate, which issues a corresponding Certificate of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import. For goods on a list of nonessential imports, the Declarations are subject to a requirement of prior study, and Certificates are generally not issued; most consumer goods are in this category. For all other imports, the Certificate is issued automatically. Public sector imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Most imports are subject to minimum financing terms of at least 180 days, calculated from the date of shipment. However, imports originating in and imported from member countries of LAI A, member countries of the Central American Common Market, Cuba, Haiti, Panama, or the Dominican Republic are subject to minimum financing terms of 90 days from shipment. Payment against shipping documents is permitted for the following: goods on the "negotiated list" shipped from and originating in LAI A member countries; goods imported by importers located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic and destined for the Special Customs Area established by Law No. 19640; fresh fruit received on consignment basis; and periodicals. Special minimum financing terms apply for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$50,000. Not more than 5 percent may be paid prior to shipment and an additional 10 percent may be paid upon the submission of shipping documents. The balance of 85 percent of the f.o.b. value is to be paid in equal installments beginning not earlier than six months after shipment according to the following schedule: F.o.b. Value of Import (In thousands of U.S. dollars) 50- 250 250- 500 500-1,000 1,000-1,500 1,500-2,000 More than 2,000 Minimum Financing Term 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years To be determined upon consultation with the Central Bank 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Imports of capital goods for which financing amounting to 85 percent of the f.o.b. value is provided by international organizations or official creditors are ex- empt from these minimum terms, as are imports by firms 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic. Payments for imports may be effected automatically by authorized entities, provided the financing conforms to the established terms; otherwise, prior central bank approval is required. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a stamp duty of 0.6 percent and selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 22 percent. Payments for Invisibles Interest payments and trade-related freight and insur- ance payments may be transferred by authorized entities without prior central bank authorization, with the excep- tion of such payments by the public sector, which requires central bank approval. Most other payments for invisibles require prior central bank approval. However, authorized entities are permitted to effect certain pay- ments and transfers up to the following limits without prior central bank approval: US$300 a month a benefi- ciary for expenses of students abroad; US$200 a month for family transfers; and US$5,000 once only for foreign medical treatment. Automatic sales of exchange for foreign travel are limited to US$50 a day up to a maximum of US$500 a year for travel to countries in South America not bordering Argentina and to US$100 a day up to a maximum of US$2,000 a year for travel to countries outside South America. Only 10 percent of the amount of these permitted travel allowances may be taken out of the country in the form of foreign bank notes or traveler's checks. Commissions related to exports can be transferred up to certain limits based on the f .o .b. value of the export. Upon presentation of required documentation, transfers of pensions and payments for medicine can be effected automatically without limit. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate invest- ments under Argentina's foreign investment regulations has been suspended since April 20, 1982. Profits, dividends, royalties, and payments of technical assis- tance fees can be transferred only through the purchase of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds (BoNEX) issued by the Government of Argentina, which can be sold in the market at a discount to obtain foreign exchange. The Central Bank may, however, approve the transfer of claims below the equivalent of US$1,000 through the official exchange market on a case-by-case basis. When either the local debtor or foreign creditor does not accept settlement by means of BONEX bonds, the payment of these obligations with foreign exchange is authorized as the foreign exchange situation permits. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The full f.o.b. proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the reference price, or if there is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the 66 shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Proceeds from traditional exports must be received before shipment, by means of advance payments or irrevocable letters of credit payable against shipping documents in Argentina. Proceeds from pro- moted exports must be repatriated within 180 days from the date of shipment. In both cases, export proceeds must be surrendered within 15 working days from the respective time limits. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates of domestic taxes paid; on December 31, 1982 the rebates amounted to 5 or 10 percent of export value, depending on the type of export. Exports shipped through certain ports were eligible for additional rebates ranging from 5-9 percent, and exports to new markets were eligible for an additional rebate of 5 percent.2 Traditional exports are subject to export taxes. The applicable tax rates on December 31, 1982 were 25 percent for grains, live cattle, wool, and leather; 20 percent for certain other agricultural exports; and 10 percent for all other traditional exports. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financ- ing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services.3 Certain products, mostly nontraditional ex- ports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles need not be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Capital Proceeds from foreign loans must be sold in the exchange market. In general, there are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. All amortization payments on loans, other than import- related loans provided in conformity with the established minimum terms, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. All loans extended through December 4, 1982 and covered by swap arrangements with the Central Bank must, upon maturity, be extended for at least 90 days, with the terms of the initial swap contract remaining in force during that period. All loans for which the domestic borrower had obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank during 1981 also must be extended under terms that have been announced by 2 The additional rebates for goods shipped through certain ports were raised from a range of 5-9 percent to a range of 8-11 percent on January 28, 1983; and the additional rebates for exports to new markets were eliminated on April 15, 1983. 3 The Argentine Export Credit Insurance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and ordinary risks and also coverage for extraordinary risks and for exports of capital goods and consumer durables and certain other consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Central Bank. The foreign creditor has the option either of accepting a bond or promissory note of the Government of Argentina which carries a grace period of about 3 !/2 years and a total maturity of about 5 years or of renegotiating the loan directly with the Argentine bor- rower on repayment terms no shorter than those for the bonds and promissory notes. These provisions do not apply when the domestic borrower had, by October 22, 1982, obtained both a voluntary extension of the loan of at least one year and a new exchange rate guarantee. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises which either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their subsidiaries requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency deposits with minimum maturities of 7 days and lend the proceeds domestically at freely determined rates of interest. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. The foreign investment regime is regulated by Law No. 21382 (Decree-Regulation No. 283 of February 4, 1977) and by amendments introduced by Law No. 22208 promulgated by Decree No. 1062 of June 30, 1980, as well as by Decree No. 103 of January 19, 1981. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency; new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine pesos belonging to foreign investors, provided that they are legally transferable abroad; capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign currency; intangible assets; and any other form acceptable to the implement- ing authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. For approval purposes, investments are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) Subject to prior approval by the National Execu- tive are (a) investments in the defense and national security sectors, in public service sectors including the postal system, electricity, gas, and telecommunications, and in radio transmitters, television stations, newspa- pers, periodicals and magazines, energy, education, and financial and insurance institutions; (b) transfers of capital and the acquisition of shares (the latter being permissible only in exceptional cases when it is mani- festly beneficial to the national economy), which involve changing the national ownership structure of a local firm belonging to national investors and having net assets exceeding US$10 million; (c) acquisition of goodwill belonging to national investors and having a value exceeding the above-mentioned amount; (d) investments that exceed US$20 million; (e) investments where the investor is a juridical person under public law; and (f) investments where special or promotional benefits are requested that can be granted only by the National ARGENTINA Executive and the proposed investment is contingent on them. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) total or partial reinvestment of a registered foreign investor's profits (even in the sectors referred to in item (1) above), provided that they do not involve changing the national ownership structure of the receiving firm and are intended to foster the activities for which the original investment was approved or which the firm was devel- oping when the law entered into force; (b) new invest- ments in freely convertible foreign currency made for the same purposes as mentioned in item (1) above and not exceeding 30 percent of the registered capital in the receiving firm and which do not involve converting it into a "domestic firm with foreign capital," or new investments that are made pursuant to a preferential right and in order to maintain an interest equal to or lower than what was held up to that time; (c) new transfers of freely convertible foreign currency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; and (d) investment in any of Argentina's stock markets, provided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company involved. (3) All other foreign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision within 120 days from the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the. entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are governed by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscription and definitive recognition. Existing and new foreign investments, as well as all capital movements relating thereto, may be recorded in the Register of Foreign Investments, which is kept by the Central Bank. Registered foreign investments may generally be repatriated three years after entry into Argentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the remittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securities denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest ruling in the international market, against provision of the equivalent in Argentine pesos. The right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits has been temporarily suspended since April 20, 1982 under Presidential Decree Nos. 786 and 787; the Central Bank may, however, authorize the transfer of profits in amounts below US$1,000. While this suspension remains in effect, profits in amounts in excess of US$1,000 may be transferred through the purchase of U.S. dollar-de- nominated Government of Argentina bonds (BONEX); foreign exchange may be obtained by selling such bonds, at a substantial discount, either in Argentina or abroad. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Profits in money or in kind on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on after-tax profit when they exceed 12 percent of registered capital on an annual basis. This tax is 15 percent on profits of more than 12 percent and up to 15 percent of registered capital, 20 percent for those of more than 15 percent and up to 20 percent of registered capital, and 25 percent for those of more than 20 percent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or "good delivery" bars among themselves or buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to sales tax. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 18. Permission was granted for authorized exchange dealers to enter into contracts for forward sales of foreign currency. If the transfer was to effect payment of an external obligation, the foreign exchange could only be transferred abroad at the maturity of the contract; in other cases the proceeds would be converted into pesos at the official exchange rate. In addition, permis- sion was granted for authorized exchange dealers to have uncovered forward exchange sales up to a limit based upon their adjusted capital; previously dealers were not permitted to have uncovered forward positions (Com- munication No. A94). April 5. Sales of foreign exchange were temporarily prohibited except to effect payments for imports and import-related costs (freight, insurance, commissions, and interest) or to pay principal and interest on financial loans. In addition, it was prohibited to effect payments earlier than two days before the due date (Telephone Communication No. 4614). April 5. Sales of foreign exchange payable directly or indirectly to natural or juridical persons resident or domiciled in the United Kingdom were suspended (Telephone Communication No. 4615). April 5. Transactions in Argentine or foreign currency involving the debiting of accounts maintained in Argen- tina in the name of natural or juridical persons residing or domiciled in the United Kingdom were suspended (Telephone Communication No. 4618). April 12. Procedures were established whereby pay- ments designated for residents of the United Kingdom were to be paid into a suspense account in the New York branch of the Banco de la Nacion (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4625). 68 April 30. The Central Bank announced that no foreign exchange could be sold, no payment made abroad, and no external payment commitment contracted without the prior consent of the Central Bank (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4634). May 5. The exchange rate for the peso was changed from $a 11,950 (buying) and $a 12,000 (selling) to $a 14,000 (buying) and $a 14,050 (selling), representing a devaluation of 14.6 percent against the U.S. dollar. Proceeds from nonpromoted exports registered with customs before May 5 were to be surrendered at the exchange rate prevailing on May 4, 1982; however, exports under Law No. 21.453 which had been declared to the National Grain Board prior to May 4 were to be surrendered at a rate communicated daily by the Central Bank (Communication No. A 120). July 5. The foreign exchange market was split into a commercial and a financial market, transactions were allocated between the two markets as follows: payments of the f .o .b. value of imports and exports were required to be effected in the commercial market, and other permitted payments were to be effected through the financial market. (Special provisions were established governing the proceeds from exports registered with customs before July 6.) The commercial market rate would be announced daily by the Central Bank; the commercial rate on July 6 was set at $a 20,000 per US$1, representing a devaluation of about 21 percent against the U.S. dollar compared with the official rate of $a 15,750 on July 5. The financial market rate would be determined freely by supply and demand. Authorization to effect payments would be granted automatically for the f.o.b. value of imports conforming to the minimum financing terms established on May 24 and for the following transactions assigned to the financial market: amortization and interest payments on foreign loans, freight and insurance payments associated with exports and imports, specified insurance and reinsurance opera- tions, consular fees, and other payments associated with foreign trade. All other payments would continue to be subject to prior approval of the Central Bank. July 5. It was clarified that, when external payments were to be effected by means of Argentine Government bonds denominated in U.S. dollars (BONEX), such bonds would be sold at either the commercial or the financial exchange rate, whichever was applicable for the type of payment being effected (Communication No. A 138). July 7. Any payment for which an exchange applica- tion was pending as of July 2, 1982 could be effected through the purchase of BONEX bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, at a rate of $a 15,750 per US$1. Applica- tions to utilize this facility were required to be received by August 16 (Communication No. C 274). July 12. The Central Bank announced that it would intervene as a buyer in the financial market at a rate of $a 33,000 per US$1. This same rate would be applied to all nontrade transactions of the public sector and to swap operations undertaken with domestic financial institu- tions (Communication No. C 283). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 2. Communication No. A 187 established the conditions under which forward transactions in foreign exchange could be resumed. Such operations could be undertaken for a period of not more than 180 days and had to be related to import and export transactions. August 2. Payments for import-related freight charges were shifted from the financial market to the commercial market (Communication No. A 188). August 2. Payments for transactions qualifying for the commercial market exchange rate could henceforth be effected by authorized institutions without prior authori- zation of the Central Bank, provided that such payments were made not more than two working days before the due date (Communication No. A 191). September 10. Exchange settlements for imports of diamonds, pearls, and precious metals were shifted from the commercial market to the financial market (Com- munication No. A 218). September 13. A regulation was introduced that 15 percent of proceeds from exports (f.o.b.) and payments for imports (f.o.b. or c . i .f .) should be effected at the financial market rate, with the balance effected at the commercial market rate. The new provisions did not apply to traditional exports registered with customs or the National Grain Board before September 13 (Com- munication No. A 219). September 15. The restrictions imposed on April 5 and April 12 regarding payments and transfers to residents of the United Kingdom were lifted (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4700). October 1. The mixed rate applied to the f .o .b. value of exports, the f.o.b. value of imports, and freight charges associated with imports was changed to 80 percent of the commercial market rate and 20 percent of the financial market rate. (Previously, the mix was 85 percent and 15 percent, respectively.) (Communication No. A 232). October 1. It was announced that proceeds from exports effected through the special customs area of the National Territories of the Great Island of Tierra de Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic could be surrendered entirely at the financial market rate (Communication No. A 233). October 29. The commercial and financial exchange markets were unified into a single official exchange market with an opening rate of $a 38,950 per US$1 (buying) and $a 39,000 per US$1 (selling), representing a devaluation of 13.6 percent for trade-related transac- tions previously effected at the mixed rate established on October 1. In addition, special provisions were adopted for proceeds from nonpromoted exports registered with customs or the National Grain Board before November 1 (Communications No. A 241 and No. A 242). Imports and Import Payments January 8. The requirement that import payments not be effected before the due date was rescinded. However, payment before the due date for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$5 million continued to require ARGENTINA the approval of the Central Bank (Communication No. A 88). April 5. The authority to make payments of up to 20 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports of capital goods in advance of shipment was temporarily suspended (Tele- phone Communication No. 4614). April 19. The Department of External Trade issued a regulation establishing the dates from which prior import licenses were required from the United Kingdom and its possessions, Australia, Canada, and other member coun- tries of the European Community. April 29. Certificates of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import were henceforth required for all imports. Un- utilized Certificates issued prior to April 28 were voided; imports from member countries of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) were exempted from this requirement (Communications No. A 119 and No. C 192). April 30. The Central Bank announced that no foreign exchange could be sold, no payment made abroad, and no external payment commitment contracted without the prior consent of the Central Bank (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4634). May 4. Sworn Declarations of Need to Import were made subject to prior study in the case of goods classified as nonessential, and a 45-day ban was imposed on the imports of such goods. The list of nonessential goods included items amounting to 10-15 percent of total annual imports, including private automobiles, alcoholic beverages, perfumes, apparel, cigarettes, and most food products and other consumer items. Imports on the "negotiated list" from members of the LAIA were exempted from the requirement of prior study and the 45-day ban (see entry for July 28, below). May 5. Import duties were reduced by a range of from 1 to 5 percentage points, depending upon the initial duty level (Resolution No. ME 436). May 24. Minimum financing terms of at least 180 days were established for most imports shipped on or after May 24, 1982. However, imports originating in and imported from member countries of the LAIA, member countries of the Central American Common Market, Cuba, Haiti, Panama, or the Dominican Republic were made subject to minimum financing terms of 90 days. Payment against shipping documents was permitted in the following cases: goods on the "negotiated list" shipped from and originating in LAIA member coun- tries; goods imported by importers located in the Na- tional Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic and destined for the Special Customs Area established by Law No. 19640; fresh fruit received on a consignment basis; and newspapers and other periodicals (Communication No. A 128). July 15. It was announced that import payments for which exchange applications were pending as of July 2, 1982 could be effected in foreign exchange at a rate of $a 15,750 per US$1, provided that the importer brought in a new loan for an equivalent amount under a swap arrangement with the Central Bank. Applications to 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA utilize this facility were to be received by August 16 (Communication No. A 162). July 15. The exchange rate guarantee scheme estab- lished on July 5 (see under Capital, below) was extended to trade financing related to imports (Communication No. A 163). July 21. Resolution No. SC 19/82 established a system of U.S. dollar limits for imports. Separate limits were established for imports in each customs category for each importer. The limits were based on the U.S. dollar value of actual imports registered in each customs category by each importer between July 1, 1981 and April 30, 1982. For the three months August through October 1982 these limits were set at 21 percent of the amount registered during the base period. Imports of capital goods, fuel, health-related products and certain primary materials were exempted from this system. Imports covered by agreements under the LAIA were also exempted, as were imports from the Central American Common Market, Cuba, Haiti, Panama, and the Dominican Republic. Importers could apply for ex- ceptions to these limits. Separate resolutions detailed the lists of exempted health-related goods (Resolution No. SC 20/82), primary products (Resolution No. SC 22/82), and fuels (Resolution No. SC 21/82). (This system of U.S. dollar limits for imports was subsequently canceled by Resolution No. SC 221/82 of October 29, 1982.) July 28. In implementation of regulations announced on May 4 (see above), Resolution No. SC 33/82 established a long list of nonessential imports, including most consumer goods. Such imports would be approved only after the Sworn Declaration of Need to Import had been submitted to detailed prior study. The requirement meant that most of such imports were effectively banned. Imports from member countries of the LAIA were exempted from the requirement, as were imports from the Central American Common Market, Cuba, Haiti, Panama, and the Dominican Republic. This resolution applied to imports for which Sworn Declara- tions of Need to Import were submitted between May 3, 1982 and August 20, 1982. August 2. Minimum financing terms were established for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$50,000. Not more than 5 percent could be paid in advance and an additional 10 percent could be paid upon the submission of shipping documents. The balance of 85 percent of the f.o.b value was to be paid in equal installments beginning not earlier than six months after shipment according to the following schedule: F.o.b. Value of Import (In thousands of U.S. dollars) Minimum Financing Term 50- 250 250- 500 500-1,000 1,000-1,500 1,500-2,000 More than 2,000 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years To be determined upon consultation with the Central Bank Capital goods covered by 85 percent financing from international organizations or official creditors were 70 exempted from these requirements, as were imports by firms located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South Atlantic (Communication No. A 189). August 2. Payments of less than US$10,000 for import-related transactions could be effected directly through authorized institutions at an exchange rate of $a 15,750 per US$1 if the exchange application had been submitted prior to July 2, 1982. Importers who had obtained financing abroad prior to July 2, 1982 for amounts in excess of US$10,000 could repay those loans by purchasing BONEX bonds at $a 15,750 per US$1, provided that the counterpart in pesos was deposited with an authorized institution prior to August 6 (Communica- tion No. A 191). August 3. Resolution No. SC 35/82 expanded the list of primary materials exempted from the system of U .S. dollar limits on imports, which had been introduced on July 21; some goods were also removed from the list. August 9. Resolution No. SC 49/82 expanded further the list of primary products exempted from the system of U.S. dollar limits on imports, which had been introduced on July 21. August 11. Resolution No. SC 52/82 extended until September 30 the requirement, introduced on July 28, 1982, that the Sworn Declarations of Need to Import for goods included in the list of nonessential imports be subject to detailed prior study. August 13. Authorized institutions could, without prior central bank approval, effect transactions in respect of payments for import-related obligations which fell due during July (Communication No. A 204). August 18. The deadline for effecting import pay- ments at an exchange rate of $a 15,750 in conjunction with new swap arrangements, as provided for in Com- munication No. A 163 of Ju ly 15, was extended to August 31 (Communication No. A 205). August 18. Resolution No. SC 63/82 expanded further the list of primary products exempted from the system of U .S. dollar limits on imports (introduced on July 21). September 3. All unutilized Sworn Declarations of Need to Import issued before September 3, 1982 for imports from Uruguay, as well as all related letters of credit, were declared invalid (Resolution No. SC 112/ 82). September 14. Resolution No. SC 142/82 established procedures by which importers could apply for excep- tions to the U.S. dollar limit on imports (see entry for July 21, above). September 16. All unutilized Sworn Declarations of Need to Import issued before September 16, 1982, as well as all related letters of credit, for imports from Paraguay were declared invalid (Resolution No. SC 152/ 82). September 16. Resolution No. SC 149/82 removed from the list of goods exempted from the U.S. dollar limits on imports certain health-related goods and pri- mary products produced domestically. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 23. Resolution No. SC 166/82 expanded further the list of primary materials exempted from the system of U.S. dollar limits on imports (see entry for July 21, above). September 24. Resolution No. ME 95/82 created an Import Price Commission to be presided over by the Under-Secretary of Commerce for External Trade and Regional Integration. The Commission would monitor the unit values declared in the Sworn Declarations of Need to Import. September 28. Resolution No. SC 172/82 extended until December 31, 1982 the requirement, introduced on July 28, 1982, that Sworn Declarations of Need to Import for goods incorporated in the list of nonessential imports should be subject to detailed prior study. Fifty tariff items were added to the list of nonessential imports and three tariff items were taken off the list. October 29. The system of U .S. dollar limits on imports which had been established by Resolution No. SC 19/82 of July 21, 1982 was abolished, and the system of automatic approval of Sworn Declarations of Need to Import for permitted imports was re-established (Resolu- tion No. SC 221/82). However, the de facto ban on imports on the nonessential list remained in effect. December 27. The de facto ban on most consumer goods imports (see entry for July 28, above) was extended to March 31, 1983. Payments for Invisibles April 5. Sales of foreign exchange were temporarily prohibited except to effect payments for imports and import-related costs (freight, insurance, commissions, and interest) or to pay principal and interest on financial loans. In addition, it was prohibited to effect payments earlier than two days before the due date (Telephone Communication No. 4614). April 20. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate investments under Argentina's foreign investment regu- lations was suspended. Henceforth, foreign obligations arising from profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance could only be paid with U.S. dollar-denomi- nated bonds issued by the Government of Argentina (BONEX). The Central Bank was empowered to extend the use of BONEX bonds to other types of external payments. The Central Bank could approve the transfer of claims below the equivalent of US$1,000 through the official exchange market on a case-by-case basis (Pres- idential Decrees No. 786 and No. 787). April 30. The Central Bank announced that no foreign exchange could be sold, no payment made abroad, and no external payment commitment contracted without the prior consent of the Central Bank (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4634). May 5. In implementation of Presidential Decrees No. 786 and No. 787 of April 20, the Central Bank announced that when either the local debtor or foreign creditor did not accept the cancellation of obligations by means of Argentine Government bonds, foreign ex- change settlement would be authorized when the foreign ARGENTINA exchange situation permitted. The Central Bank would also consider applications for cancellations with U.S. dollar Argentine Government bonds, of external obliga- tions other than those specified in Presidential Decrees No. 786 and No. 787, that is, profits, dividends, royalties, and payments for technical assistance (Central Bank Communication No. A 125). August 2. Interest on foreign loans, which had accrued through July 2, 1982 and for which an exchange application was pending on that date, could be paid at an exchange rate of $a 15,750 per US$1 without prior authorization of the Central Bank, provided that the debtor obtained an extension of at least one year on the loan (Communication No. A 192). August 6. Authorized agencies were permitted to effect certain payments and transfers up to specified limits without prior central bank approval. The following limits were established: US$300 a month a beneficiary for expenses of students abroad; US$200 a month for family transfers; US$5,000 once only for foreign med- ical treatment. Automatic sales of exchange for foreign travel were limited to US$50 a day, up to a maximum of US$500 a year for countries in South America not bordering Argentina, and to US$100 a day, up to a maximum of US$2,000 a year for countries outside South America. Commissions related to exports could be transferred up to certain limits based on the f .o .b. value of the export. Upon presentation of required documenta- tion, transfers of pensions and payments for medicine could be effected automatically without limit (Communi- cation No. A 199). Exports and Export Proceeds March 30. It was announced that March 31, 1982 would be the final date for drawing on loans granted under the system of prefinancing for promoted exports (Communication No. B 107). April 27. Controls were established on exports of goods needed for national defense and security (Decree No. 789). May 5. Taxes on traditional exports were set at rates of 5 percent and 10 percent, instead of the single 10 percent rate previously in effect. Tax rebates on promoted exports were set at rates of 5, 10, and 14 percent, instead of the single rate of 10 percent previously in effect. An additional emergency export duty of $a 1,000 per US$1 was levied on certain traditional exports (Resolution No. ME 437). July 5. Taxes on traditional exports (e.g., grains, live cattle, wool, and leather) were raised from 10 percent to 25 percent of export proceeds; taxes on other agricultural exports were raised from 10 percent to 20 percent; the rate for exports previously taxed at 5 percent was raised to 10 percent; and traditional exports previously subject to no tax were made subject to a tax of 10 percent. At the same time, rebates for promoted exports were reduced from 14 percent to 10 percent, from 10 percent to 5 percent, or from 5 percent to zero, depending upon the 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA type of export. The new rates applied only to exports registered with customs after July 5 (Resolution No. ME 8/82). August 4. Provisions were established whereby autho- rized agencies could make forward contracts for the purchase of exchange from exporters and obtain cover for such operations from the Central Bank (Communica- tion No. A 194). August 4. Authorization was granted for exchange proceeds for promoted exports in excess of the amounts targeted by each exporter in the sectoral export plan to be surrendered at the financial market rate under specified conditions (Communication No. A 195). September 24. A special lending program was estab- lished under which exporters of promoted exports could obtain 180-day loans at regulated rates for an amount up to 30 percent of the peso equivalent of the exchange proceeds surrendered on account of such exports (Com- munications No. A 228 and No. A 230). September 27. A special tax rebate rate of 25 percent was established for sugar exports (Resolution No. ME 101/82). November 1. The tax rebate on sugar exports was reduced to 10 percent from 25 percent (Resolution No. ME 285/82). December 1. The system of special rebates for exports from Patagonian ports was modified. Henceforth, the rebates would apply only to exports produced in the region and exported through any port in the region, with the amount of the rebate being established as a function of the location of the port (Resolution No. ME 287/82). Capital April 5. Sales of foreign exchange were temporarily prohibited except to effect payments for imports and import-related costs (freight, insurance, commissions, and interest) or to pay principal and interest on financial loans. In addition, it was prohibited to effect payments earlier than two days before the due date (Telephone Communication No. 4614). April 20. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate investments under Argentina's foreign investment regu- lations was suspended, and a provision was introduced that foreign obligations arising from profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance could only be settled by means of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by the Government of Argentina. The Central Bank was empowered to extend the use of U.S. dollar-denomi- nated Argentine Government bonds (BONEX) to other types of external payments. The Central Bank could also approve the transfer of claims below the equivalent of US$1,000 through the official exchange market on a case-by-case basis (Presidential Decrees No. 786 and No. 787). April 30. The Central Bank announced that no foreign exchange could be sold, no payment made abroad, and no external payment commitment contracted without the prior consent of the Central Bank (Telephone Communi- cation No. 4634). 72 May 5. In implementation of Presidential Decrees No. 786 and No. 787 of April 20, the Central Bank announced that when either the local debtor or foreign creditor did not accept the cancellation of obligations by means of Argentine Government bonds (BONEX), foreign exchange settlement would be authorized when the foreign exchange situation permitted (Central Bank Communication No. A 125). May 19. Law No. 22591 was enacted, declaring that holders of assets within the territory of the Republic of Argentina or within its jurisdiction and owned by the United Kingdom, the Crown, British subjects not resid- ing permanently in Argentina, persons of other nationalities residing in the U .K ., or any enterprise or entity directly or indirectly controlled by them were prohibited from using such assets or entering into arrangements which could reduce their value or produc- tive capacity or remove them from their existing national jurisdiction. It was specified that these provisions did not cover operations associated with the normal conduct of business of the persons, enterprises, or entities concerned. May 28. Swap operations with the private sector, which had been suspended since December 24, 1981, were resumed. The Central Bank would offer swap contracts with respect to either the renewal of swaps contracted under the provisions in effect until Decem- ber 24, 1981 or financial loans in convertible foreign currency contracted after June 1, 1982. Such operations would have a term of 180 days and carry a monthly charge of 5 percent (Communications No. A 129 and No. A 130). June 10. The provision governing the premium charged for swap contracts was modified. Under the new provision, the domestic borrower could choose between either a fixed premium of 3 percent or a variable premium equal to the difference between the changes in the wholesale price indices in Argentina and in the United States (Communication No. A 131). July 5. The Central Bank announced that it would undertake 180-day swap operations against loan pro- ceeds surrendered in the financial market after July 6, 1982. The premium to be paid by the borrower was to be established monthly by the Central Bank; initially it was set at 4 percent a month. Domestic financial institutions were allowed to undertake these swaps and relend the funds in the local market at freely determined interest rates (Communication No. A 136). July 5. The Central Bank introduced an exchange rate guarantee scheme for financial loans, the proceeds of which had been negotiated in the exchange market prior to July 6, 1982. To be eligible for this guarantee, the debtor should secure an extension of one year in the maturity of the loan. The guaranteed rate was the official exchange rate on the day before the introduction of the dual exchange market, that is, $a 15,750 per US$1, to be adjusted thereafter by the difference in the changes in the wholesale price indices in Argentina and the United States. Loans covered under previous guarantee schemes ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution could, upon maturity, be covered under the new scheme provided that a minimum further extension of one year was obtained; the pesos received as the difference between the new and the old guaranteed rates would be applied to the cancellation of loans from the domestic banking system. Applications for exchange rate guaran- tees under this scheme were to be received by Septem- ber 4, 1982 (Communication No. A 137). July 15. Import payments for which exchange applica- tions were pending as of July 2, 1982 could be effected in foreign exchange at a rate of $a 15,750 per US$1, provided that the importer brought in a new loan for an equivalent amount under a swap arrangement with the Central Bank. Applications to utilize this facility were to be received by August 16 (Communication No. A 162). July 15. The exchange rate guarantee scheme estab- lished on July 5 (see entry under Exchange Ar- rangement, above) was extended to trade financing related to imports and to interest payments accrued through December 31, 1982 on loans that carried an exchange rate guarantee under that scheme (Communi- cation No. A 163). August 2. Interest on foreign loans, which had accrued through July 2, 1982 and for which an exchange application was pending on that date, could be paid at an exchange rate of $a 15,750 per US$1 without prior authorization of the Central Bank, provided that the debtor obtained an extension of at least one year on the loan. Payments of principal on foreign loans for which an exchange application was pending on Ju ly 2, 1982 could still be effected through the purchase of BONEX bonds at $a 15,750 per US$1, provided that the counterpart in pesos was paid to an authorized agency by August 6; otherwise such principal repayments could only be made at the current exchange rate and would require the previous authorization of the Central Bank (Communication No. A 192). August 6. When loans covered by an exchange guarantee issued in 1981 were extended under the guarantee provisions established on July 5, 1982, the pesos received as the difference between the old and the new guaranteed rates would be applied to the cancella- tion of loans at regulated rates with the domestic banking system (Communication No. A 198). September 24. The terms associated with the exchange rate guarantee scheme for private sector loans introduced on July 5 were changed. The guaranteed rate for the contract was to be $a 15,750, adjusted by the change between July 2 and the date of the guarantee contract in an index of the difference in movements in the wholesale price indices in Argentina and the United States. From the date of the exchange guarantee contract until Septem- ber 30, 1982, the premium to be paid by the local debtor for this guarantee was set equal to the percentage change ARGENTINA in that index. From October 1, 1982 until the end of the month in which the exchange markets were unified, the premium was to be set equal to either the percentage change in that index or the domestic treasury bill rate, at the debtor's option. Thereafter, the premium could be set equal to either (a) the percentage change in that index, or (b) the percentage change in the peso price of the U.S. dollar in the unified exchange market, or (c) the difference between the domestic free deposit rate and the one-month LIB OR, at the debtor's option. The premium would have to be paid at the maturity of the contract and, provided that a loan extension of at least 15 months was obtained, would be reduced by 1.25 percentage points for each quarter by which the loan maturity had been extended. The deadline for applying for exchange rate guarantees under the system introduced on July 5 was extended from September 4 to October 15, 1982 (Com- munication No. A 229). November 17. The Central Bank announced that all external loans carrying an exchange rate guarantee issued by the Central Bank during 1981 should be rescheduled, with specified m in imum terms. Under these provisions, the foreign creditor either could accept a U .S. dollar-denominated bond or promissory note of the Government of Argentina carrying a grace period of approximately 31/2 and a total maturity of about 5 years or, renegotiate the loan directly with the Argentine borrower, provided that the repayment terms were no shorter than those attached to the bonds and promissory notes. Interest earnings on these loans continued to be fu l ly transferable. These provisions did not apply when the domestic borrower had, by October 22, 1982, obtained a voluntary extension of the loan and a new exchange rate guarantee under the scheme established on Ju ly 5, 1982 (Communication No. A 251). November 19. Payment of amortization on financial loans to the Argentine private sector was made subject to prior central bank approval, while the freedom of transfer of interest payment was retained. Previously such payments could be effected automatically by the authorized entities (Communication No. C 482). December 2. Communication No. C 533 provided for the renewal of maturing swaps for a maximum period of 180 days and established a premium for such operations of 6 percent a month. December 4. The Central Bank announced that all maturing swaps must be rolled over for a period of at least 90 days (Telephone Communication No. 4748). December 9. The Central Bank announced that swaps renewed after December 7 under the compulsory provi- sions established on December 4 would be renewed at the original contract exchange rate and would carry a monthly premium equal to that established in the original contract (Telephone Communication No. 4751). 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar.2 The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is determined by reference to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The level of the exchange rate as measured by the index of the value of the Australian dollar in terms of the trade- weighted basket is kept under review and is changed when assessment of all relevant economic factors indi- cates a need for movement of the rate. A middle rate for the Australian dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar (the intervention currency) is announced each day by the Reserve Bank of Australia. Official limits are set at or within which banks are to effect spot transactions with the public in U .S. dollars. On December 31, 1982 the authorities set a middle rate for the U .S. dollar of $A 1 = US$0.9806 and the official limits were US$0.9830 and US$0.9782 for spot transactions. Ex- change rates for other currencies are not officially posted, and banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks, in conjunction with the Reserve Bank, provide forward exchange cover to residents for trade transactions and some trade-related transactions in invisibles. In respect of this facility, the Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the trading banks in U .S. dollars. In addition, there is a foreign currency hedge market in which the trading banks and some merchant banks match the currency hedge requirements of their customers at market-determined rates. Forward cover on this market can be arranged for any type of current or capital transaction and may be obtained for any currency subject to market availability. The market is restricted to Australian residents and no arbitrage is permitted be- tween the Australian and international markets. All settlements are effected in Australian dollars. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Govern- ment with the advice of the Department of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control in accordance with the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations under the Banking Act, *A closer economic relations agreement with New Zealand came into effect, on January 1, 1983, providing for elimination of tariffs of 5 percent or less and a phased reduction of virtually all other tariffs. In addition, all quantitative restrictions on imports from New Zealand were to be removed by 1995. The agreement also provided for the phased elimination of all performance-based export incentives in the two countries by 1987. 2The Australian dollar also circulates in a number of other countries, including Kiribati, Nauru, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu. Beginning March 31, 1983 the Australian dollar started to be withdrawn from circulation in Vanuatu. 74 1959 and delegates considerable discretionary powers to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export controls are imposed on certain commodities pursuant to the Customs Act. These controls are administered by the relevant Ministers and Departments according to regulations under that Act. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, payments may be made in Australian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency;3 if imports are invoiced in foreign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds from exports may be received in Australian currency from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were in- volved. Transfers are allowed, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. However, special rules apply to overseas banks, central banks, governments, and government agencies; basically, they may hold essential working balances and are not permitted to invest at interest. The balance on an account held by any nonresident may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are gener- ally not permitted to borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Payments for imports normally must be made not earlier than the date of shipment or one month before the arrival of the goods in Australia, and not later than six months after the arrival of the goods in Australia; consent to longer periods is generally given only when it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Import restrictions, including quotas, are im- posed on certain goods, although not for exchange control purposes; the restrictions are maintained mainly for reasons of industry assistance, health, community protection, or security, or to sustain quality standards. There is provision in the Customs Tariff (antidump- ing) Act 1975 for action to be taken when dumped imports have caused, are causing, or are threatening material injury to Australian industries. Dumping duties may be imposed, unless the exporters voluntarily raise their export prices to the level necessary to remove 3 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution injury. During 1982 a total of 127 complaints of alleged dumping were received. Although not all of these complaints were investigated, a total of over 60 cases were completed during the year. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but they are not restricted. The control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; in addition, remittances to Vanuatu are subject to a screening procedure to ensure that no tax minimization transactions are involved. Applications for outward transfers in connection with current invisibles are nor- mally dealt with immediately by banks; forms do not generally have to be filled out for amounts under $A 10,000, and banks generally need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no prescribed limit on travel funds. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $A 1,500 for each additional month up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amounts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses. Similarly, no specific limits are placed on remittances for family maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made not later than six months after the date when it is contractually due; consent to longer deferment is given only in special cases when it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with foreign insurers. Travelers may take out, without special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Australian coin. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency instruments (other than Australian dollar notes) provided that they brought them into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, Customs (Endangered Species) Regulations, and regulations administered by the Depart- ment of Primary Industry to provide quality controls over certain primary products. The obligation to account for export proceeds rests directly on the exporter. Proceeds of exports of all commodities, unless otherwise author- ized, must be received in Australia in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. The approved period is defined as being as soon as practic- able after the date on which payment is made to the exporter, and not later than six months after exportation AUSTRALIA nor earlier than one month before exportation. Longer periods are allowed only where the payment ar- rangements are in accordance with normal commercial practice. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of specified goods is prohibited unless permission to export is granted. Export permits are issued for goods or products approved for export by the appropriate controlling authority. The regulations apply to certain raw or semiprocessed minerals, metals, fuels, and petroleum products. Among other things, export controls are used when necessary to ensure that (a) fair and reasonable world market prices are achieved, (b) adequate supplies are available for the domestic market, (c) international and strategic obligations are met, (d) the Government's nuclear safeguards and physical protec- tion requirements on exports are met, consistent with Australia's international obligations in relation to uranium and nuclear materials, and (e) account is taken of environmental considerations. The Government fol- lows the general principle that exporters should be the sole negotiators for export contracts and that the market should determine prices; generally the export control power is not used but is held in reserve to be used if and when the need arises, consistent with the need to protect the national interest. Controls are available to facilitate the observance of Australia's obligations under interna- tional commodity agreements, to complement orderly marketing arrangements under Australian legislation, and to provide that domestic needs for certain agricul- tural and industrial inputs are satisfied ahead of export demands. There are provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Controls also exist over exports of Australian-registered ships. These con- trols are exercised to ensure that an adequate fleet of vessels remains available for local purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require ap- proval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct invest- ments. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a significant measure of Australian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Australian investments abroad. Ap- proval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. The export of securities and transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Exchange control policy on portfolio investment over- seas places no monetary limits on acquisitions of equity and real estate. For portfolio investments in eligible fixed-interest securities, there are limits in any financial year of $A 10,000 for individuals, $A 100,000 for substantial private companies, and $A 1 million for public companies and institutions. Eligible fixed-interest securities are those that are traded on a recognized overseas market and have at the date of purchase not less than one year to reach maturity. Investment in banks and in money market and similar short-term deposits, as well as loans to nonresidents, is not permitted. Residents are normally permitted to reinvest the proceeds from sales of foreign securities. When exchange control approval is being sought, investment in and other transactions of a capital nature with countries and territories designated for tax screening purposes4 require a tax clearance certificate from the Commissioner of Taxation. Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency from any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident other than in cases associated with the purchase of goods. In addition, residents are required to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter into contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or contingent rights to payments or any other valuable consideration or services are created in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or transfer securities to or register securities in the name of any nonresident. Guarantees in Australian or foreign currency by or on behalf of Australian residents are authorized where the underlying transactions conform to exchange control policy. Inward equity investment re- quires exchange control approval, but stockbrokers have been authorized to deal in most stock exchange securities on behalf of nonresidents. A distinction is made between exchange control obligations and foreign investment policy obligations. The Government's policy on foreign investment is basically one of encouragement because of the contribu- tion foreign investment has made, and is expected to make, to the development of Australia's industries and resources. The Government is advised on individual proposals and on foreign investment matters generally by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Certain foreign investment proposals are examined to ensure that they harmonize with Australia's interests. The foreign invest- ment policy obligations apply to certain categories of foreign investment whether or not exchange control approval is required to transfer funds into Australia to finance such investment. The examination procedures recognize the need to avoid unnecessary interference with normal commercial processes. The following types of proposals are subject to examination: (a) proposals falling within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, 4These are listed as Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Nauru, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, Switzerland, Tonga, and Vanuatu. 76 including any acquisition of shares or assets that would result in or increase a substantial foreign interest in an Australian company (a substantial foreign interest is defined to cover a holding of 15 percent or more of the issued shares or voting power of a company by a single or associated foreign interest and a holding of a total of 40 percent or more by two or more foreign interests); (b) proposals to establish a new business or project, irrespective of size, in the areas of finance, insurance, the media, civil aviation, and uranium and uranium- related activities; (c) proposals to establish new business in other sectors of the economy, where the total amount of the investment is $A 5 million or more, including new projects in mining and other natural resource industries; (d) direct investments by foreign governments or their agencies, i.e., other than portfolio investments or invest- ments related to their official representation; and (e) proposals to acquire real estate valued at $A 350,000 or more. The Government seeks to ensure that foreign invest- ment is in accord with Australia's interests by maximiz- ing the benefits and minimizing any disadvantages of such investment. Each proposal is considered on its merits to assess whether it would produce net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition and efficiency, the introduction of new technology or man- agerial or work force skills, improvements in the industrial or commercial structure of the economy, and access to new export markets. If the proposal is judged on the basis of these criteria to be not contrary to the national interest, it is considered against other criteria such as the level of Australian equity participation, management and control following implementation of the proposal, and conformity of the proposal with other government policies. There are specific guidelines concerning Australian equity participation in proposals for investment in the natural resources sector. A proposed new project for the mining and production of uranium should have a minimum of 75 percent Australian equity and it should be Australian controlled. Only in cases where 75 percent Australian equity is clearly unobtainable will alternative proposals be considered. In such cases it needs to be demonstrated that 75 percent Australian equity is un- available, that the project would be of significant economic benefit to Australia, that there would be at least 50 percent Australian equity, and that Australians would have the major role in determining the policy of the project. Where projects do not have 75 percent Australian equity and control, arrangements may be required to increase the level of Australian participation over an agreed period. Other projects in the natural resources sector are, as a general rule, only allowed to proceed provided they have a minimum of 50 percent Australian equity with at least 50 percent of the voting strength of the Board held by Australian interests. However, projects may be approved with less than 50 percent Australian equity, provided they are not otherwise contrary to the national interest ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and the Government judges that the unavailability of sufficent Australian equity capital on reasonable terms and conditions would unduly delay the development of Australia's natural resources. In this event, the Govern- ment seeks, as appropriate, satisfactory arrangements for Australian equity to be increased to at least 50 percent within an agreed period. A framework and an incentive have been established for the "naturalization" of foreign-owned companies that have significant Australian shareholdings. Under the provisions, a company may be granted naturalized status (if it is at least 51 percent Australian owned and has a majority of Australian citizens on its Board) or natu- ralizing status (if it has at least 25 percent Australian equity, a majority of Australian citizens on its Board, and it makes a public commitment to the Government to increase its Australian equity to 51 percent). A company wishing to naturalize is required to reach an understand- ing with the Government on practical arrangements for achieving 51 percent Australian ownership. A natu- ralizing company is given prior credit for achieving 51 percent Australian ownership. Accordingly, either a naturalizing company or a naturalized company may undertake new projects (other than projects involving uranium, finance, insurance, the media, and civil avia- tion, where special restrictions apply) on its own, or in any combination with other companies (provided the "mix" meets the 50 percent Australian equity and control guidelines), without first seeking approval from the Government. The naturalization arrangements do not affect a company's position under the provisions of the Foreign Takeovers Act. Foreign-controlled companies incorporated in Aus- tralia, or operating in Australia as locally registered foreign companies, may raise funds for their local requirements in the Australian capital market. Such foreign companies proposing to borrow locally are invited to consider alternative sources of financing, including the raising of local equity by means of new share issues or other placements.5 Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buying, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold, subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. New quota arrangements for textiles, clothing, and footwear were introduced. 5More details of Australia's foreign investment policy are contained in a government document Australia's Foreign Investment Policy—A Guide for Investors. The guide was published prior to the election of the Australian Labor Government on March 5, 1983. The new Government recognizes that foreign capital has a significant role to play in the development of the Australian economy and is in general agreement with the broad thrust of existing policy. There are inevitably differences of emphasis on some points of policy and, when these have been developed in detail, a new guide to foreign investors will be issued. AUSTRALIA January 12. Special preference for Canada in regard to certain shopping bags was discontinued. January 22. Certain steel items were made dutiable at a long-term rate of 15 percent, to be phased in over a period of two years. February 18. Changes were made in the import system as follows: (a) the duty on imports of polyun- saturated margarine was reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent; (b) the duty on certain surge diverters was increased from 2 percent to 15 percent; (c) developing country preference for Brazil for certain road rollers was reduced to 10 percent; and (d) import licensing on certain razor blades was discontinued and a 10 percent duty rate applied. February 26. A number of variations in duty rates were applied to certain springs and wire products, cutlery, industrial knives, and hand tools. March 12. Certain articles of cork and certain floor and wall coverings were made subject to a phased duty reduction of 20 percent over two years. The balance was made subject to generally lower duty rates. In addition, ginger products became subject to a sliding scale duty. March 19. The duty on imports of drawing and mathematical calculating instruments was raised from 2 percent to 25 percent, to be phased down to 20 percent after two years. April 1. A variety of duty rates were applied to works trucks and stackers; import licensing was abolished for certain works trucks. April 16. Imports from Argentina, with the exception of those already in transit or covered by existing contracts, were prohibited. April 22. The import duty on certain fruit and fruit products was reduced to 15 percent; other products were subjected to a four-year phased duty reduction. May 30. Import quota levels for 1983 were increased for specified categories of textiles, clothing, and footwear. June 1. The duty on imports of canned ham and sausages was raised to 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, while duty rates on certain other edible meat products were reduced. June 17. Duty rates on imports of certain articles of stone, plaster and cement, and other specified items were generally decreased. July 1. Revised quotas were applied to imports from developing countries. July 16. The ban on imports of goods from Argentina was lifted. July 20. The 2 percent import duty applying to ships was abolished. August 20. The 25 percent import duty was discon- tinued for certain fishing vessels; a bounty was applied to the production of certain fishing vessels. August 27. The following changes were made in the import system: (a) the duty on imports of fluorescent lamps was increased from 15 percent to 20 percent; (b) duty rates were generally decreased on dolls, toys and models, and various articles of adornment; and (c) quotas 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA were imposed on the importation of certain flat steel products and pipes and tubes of iron and steel. September 8. A temporary duty of 150 percent was applied to imports of certain steel products imported outside quota arrangements. In addition, the duty rates on certain rubberized or elastic garments were raised. September 24. Phased reductions were introduced on certain products of the forging, foundry, die-casting and sheet metal industries. October 15. Various import duties were applied to combustible products (e.g., ammunition, matches), hand sieves, and insulated wire. November 18. An interim quota of 81,000 units was announced for imports of motor vehicles in 1983. December 9. Import duties on wood and articles of wood were rationalized, and reduced in a number of cases. December 10. Further changes were made in the import system as follows: (a) a preference quota for developing countries was established for building, car- pentry, and joinery materials; (b) wood and certain articles of wood were subject to phased duty reductions and maintenance of quotas; and (c) phased reductions in a composite rate of duty were applied to orange and tangerine juices. Exports and Export Proceeds March 23. New procedures were introduced to tighten existing controls on the export of uranium concentrates. July 28. Exports of coking and noncoking coals, which were previously dutiable at a rate of $A 1.00 a ton, were exempted from export duty. Payment for Invisibles December 21. The maximum amount of outward remittance that could be effected without generally having to fill out forms was increased from under $A 2,000 to under $A 10,000. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at maintaining a stable relation with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 31, 1982 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 16.637 and S 16.737, respectively, per US$1. There are no ex- change taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Aus- trian banks authorized to implement the exchange con- trol regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant ministry, v iz ., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) for industrial products or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. For products falling under monopoly, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Ac- counts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between member countries of the IMF or the OECD with which settlements take place in convertible currencies and other countries with which settlements are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely opened by Austrian credit institutions on behalf of nonresidents without any formality other than a check by the credit institution of the nonresident status of the beneficiary when the schilling funds are obtained from the selling of freely convertible foreign currencies at a domestic credit institution for the nonresident's account. Such accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. Usually, licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses but most are free of quantitative restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country they are imported from. * Nearly all imports from GATT coun- tries, their associated territories, and some other coun- tries2 are liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bar- bados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea- Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malay- sia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Sao Tome* and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vanuatu, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA The importation of coffee and sugar is governed by the international agreements for these commodities. Non- liberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilat- eral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (barter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potato, wheat, and corn starch, preserved meat, wine and certain medicaments. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including im- ports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payment; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Mar- keting Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for periods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from the 31 least developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the Act. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport and insurance. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invis- ibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 2,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments on account of invisibles to countries 80 other than members of the IMF and the OECD with which settlements are made in convertible currencies require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or may obtain, as short- term advances from nonresidents in multilateral coun- tries, up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, additional amounts may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. Goods exported under baiter arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 50,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Aus- tria may bring in Austrian or foreign bank notes and coin without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities, shares and participations in Austrian companies, and Austrian real estate is covered by a general license. In certain provinces, the acquisition of real estate is subject to the approval of the local authorities. Direct invest- ments by nonresidents are also permitted by general authorization, if made with convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances; for investments financed in other ways, authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the National Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) investment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents. Import credit with a maturity customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of author- ized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation. The National Bank licenses financial loans with maturities of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus 15 percent. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for interbank on- lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to this limit. Transactions and operations mentioned in the follow- ing three paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign invest- ments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Aus- tria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresident relatives, provided that the lender draws on his own resources. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab- lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad for the purpose of establish- ing a secondary residence, that is, intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year, to grant commercial or investment credits (provided that, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used within Austria), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the manage- ment of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude life insurance con- tracts in Austria with nonresidents. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in member countries of the IMF or OECD with which settlements take place in convertible currencies and registered on stock exchanges3 and Austrian securities; for foreign 3 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating nature in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate surveillance. AUSTRIA securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in convertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresi- dents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or with interna- tional financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including nonresidents) gold coin that is not legal tender; the prices are based on those for coin and unmanufactured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schillings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; further- more, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, den- tists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 percent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses auto- matically for certain gold imports within its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank cov- ering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to specified member countries to export such coin up to a value of S 2,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commer- cial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1982 Nonresident Accounts July 1. The set of the Austrian National Bank's announcements concerning general licenses for transac- tions between residents and nonresidents, as required by the Foreign Exchange Law of 1946, was replaced by an updated version. The re-issue took account of minor adjustments and served to improve transparency. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A temporary joint discipline arrangement between Austria and the European Community (EC) on mutual trade in cheeses entered into force for an initial period of three years. January 1. The Austrian Parliament enacted the Customs Preference Act 1982, covering the second ten- year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Preferences (i.e., the period through December 31, 1991). The 1982 Act provided for a special tariff treatment for imports from the 31 least developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly, thereby excluding Greece, Portugal, Spain, and Turkey from the list of beneficiaries. The Act also extended the list of products which would be eligible for preferential tariff treatment. October 8. A commodity exchange agreement was signed between Austria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, under which one million tons of Iranian oil would be imported by Austria in exchange for Austrian exports of industrial products, including machinery and energy equipment. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A temporary joint discipline arrangement between Austria and the EC on mutual trade in cheeses entered into force, for an initial period of three years. October 1. The National Bank raised the ceiling for export financing at preferential rates from S 8 billion to S 9 billion, with S 200 million of the increase to be made available to the Austrian Export Fund by way of open market purchases. October 8. A commodity exchange agreement was signed between Austria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, under which one million tons of Iranian oil would be imported by Austria in exchange for Austrian exports of industrial products, including machinery and energy equipment. Capital January 7. In a modification of the agreement con- cerning quantitative limits on the extension of foreign currency credits by domestic banks to nonresidents, the National Bank specified that such credits outstanding in 1982 could be not more than 15 percent above the level outstanding at the end of 1981. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U .S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are B$l .0025 and B$ 1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.07 is applied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A further tax of B$0.07 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1982 the bid and offer rates reflecting this premium were 21 percent and 26 percent, respectively. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not dele- gated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. 1 This is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of foreign currency securities and the making of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The exchange control system of the Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency2 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits but without work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originat- ing outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the Central Bank's approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or humanitarian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;4 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 110 percent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1 percent. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 3 Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts. 4Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Author- ized dealers can make payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invis- ibles within specified limits. Such payments include freight, ships' disbursements, commissions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$l ,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allow- ance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commit- ments outside the Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. A traveler may take out of the Bahamas Bahamian notes not exceeding B$70 in value and notes of any other territory not exceeding US$1,000 in value. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes. The import of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Bahamas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central 84 Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident individuals and com- panies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for invest- ments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign sub- sidiary companies. Permission is not given for invest- ments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. When an investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Pay- ment for the investment may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. In October 1979, the Government announced that sales would not be permitted except when the land is to be used for residential purposes by approved persons and for approved industrial or development purposes. A Foreign Investments Board is scheduled to be instituted to exercise general supervision and control over nonresi- dent ownership of land. For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned trading profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expendi- tures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permis- sion, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. 5 Banks and trusts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption from certain exchange control obligations, notably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange market; interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securi- ties may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.6 All foreign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if regis- tered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside the Bahamas are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person's redesignation as a nonresi- dent, income accruing from his assets remaining in the Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. 6 These are 11 banks and trust companies authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. BAHAMAS Residents other than authorized banks require permis- sion to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions with regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not normally allowed to raise working capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small propor- tion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally determined in relation to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic cur- rency to any corporate body (other than a bank), which is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. How- ever, companies that are set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside the Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a foreign currency normally are permitted on application. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to industrial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coin. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coin; however, an import duty of 30 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 7.5 percent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisi- tion or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. On the occasion of the fifth anniversary of Independence, the Bahamas issued commemorative coins of B$10 in silver and B$100 in gold, and to commemorate the two hundred fiftieth anniversary of Parliament, commemora- tive coins of B$25 in silver and B$250 in gold. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments March 5. Import license requirements for fruits and vegetables from the state of Florida were discontinued. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. Bahrain sets exchange rates for the Bahrain dinar within margins of plus or minus 7.25 percent, in terms of the fixed relationship between the Bahrain dinar and the SDR. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency is adjusted from time to time. The Agency also quotes daily rates for pounds sterling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those curren- cies. On December 31, 1982 the Agency's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. The Agency does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic bever- ages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely with the exception that under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of divi- dends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other com- modities) requires approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering with the Ministry of Com- merce; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes during 1982 Capital August 28. The Bahrain Monetary Agency reduced by one percentage point the maximum rate payable on deposits denominated in Bahrain dinars; in addition, an increase of 0.5 percent over the new deposit rate was introduced for certificates of deposit denominated in Bahrain dinars and with a maturity of less than one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency,l is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Changes in the exchange rate for the pound sterling are generally made when fluctuations in the exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies in the basket exceed 1 percent in either direction. On December 31, 1982 the middle rate of the official buying and selling rates (spot) was Tk 39.00 = £ stg. 1. On December 31, 1982 the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 38.95 and Tk 39.05, respectively, per £ stg. 1. On the same date the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 38.9187 and Tk 39.0813, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned.2 A different effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme, under which most foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad are auctioned or sold by the wage earners or their representatives to their eligible users on a bilateral basis at negotiated rates; foreign exchange purchased under this scheme may be used for specified imports, expenditure on foreign travel, and other approved purposes. On December 30, 1982 this latter rate was Tk 24.40 per US$1 and Tk 39.20 = £ stg. 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars and sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at authorized banks covering periods of up to six months are available in all approved foreign currencies for export proceeds and for import payments. Forward exchange facilities for three months are available for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and foreign airlines. For settlement of transactions under the Asian Clearing Union, Bangladesh Bank purchases, both spot and forward, the currencies of the member coun- tries of the Union,3 as well as the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU);4 it also sells these currencies for spot delivery. 'The intervention currency was changed to the U.S. dollar on January 11, 1983; the official buying and selling rates declared on that day were Tk 24.48 and Tk 24.52, respectively, per US$1. 2Following the adoption, on January 11, 1983, of the U.S. dollar as the intervention currency, exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar have been based on the closing rates in New York. 3Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, Burma, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 4 The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording the value of transactions passing through the Union. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and six domestic commercial banks, together with one joint-venture bank and four specialized finan- cial institutions, have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Commerce Division) is re- sponsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state-trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangla- desh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangla- desh has commodity exchange agreements5 normally must be effected through nonconvertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements; settlement with these countries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum and natural gas and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary units through the Clearing Union.6 As regards other countries, settlements normally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies, and in few cases, through Non- resident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresi- dent Taka Account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.7 Nonresident Accounts may be opened only 5Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia. 6The Bangladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Clearing Union and the member countries' currencies twice a month. 7 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Specified debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, inter- national nonprofit humanitarian organizations func- tioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Con- vertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangla- desh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal chan- nels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Ban- gladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restric- tion, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a year for each country for travel by air to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, up to the equivalent of £ stg. 300 a trip for travel to other countries (for a maximum of three trips in one year), and up to US$50 a year for overland travel to India.8 Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin 8 The exchange allowance for foreign travel by air was redefined in January 1983 as US$200 for a visit to neighboring countries and US$600 for a visit to other countries. 88 may also open Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts, denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, which range in term from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500, with (1) remittances in convertible currencies and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Accounts maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at rates prevailing in the local money market for taka deposits. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the Wage Earners' Scheme, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Account maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the official rate, must be reported monthly to the Bangladesh Bank and the accounts must be closed within six months or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon the taking up of permanent residence by the account holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports other than foodgrains, fertilizers, and items financed by project aid are licensed within the framework of an annual import policy (import budget). Under the Import Policy Order for the fiscal year 1982/ 83 (July to June), items that may be imported were clas- sified into four broad categories: (1) goods imported by "commercial importers"; (2) items imported by the TCB; (3) items which are exclusively importable under the Wage Earners' Scheme, or the Export Performance Li- censing System; and (4) industrial raw and packing ma- terials imported by different industrial sectors. The Im- port Policy Order prohibits or restricts imports of factory rejects, goods of substandard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. Import licenses are required by industrial consumers for the importation of raw materials, packing materials, spare parts, capital machinery, and for importation under the Export Performance Licensing System. Letter of credit authorization forms are required for the importa- tion of commercial items. Importers intending to import goods under the Wage Earners' Scheme are required to obtain an Import Registration Certificate for purposes of customs clearance. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Single country licenses or letter of credit authorization forms are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under aid programs. Other import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Taiwant are prohi- bited. For shipment of imports under cash and the Export tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Performance License System, the validity of licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are as follows: ( 1 )6 months from the date of registration of a letter of credit authorization form for commercial imports; (2) 9 months from the registration date of a license or a letter of credit authorization form for the importation of raw materials and packing materials by industrial importers; and (3) 12 months from the date of registration of a license for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer they may be revalidated by an authorized foreign exchange dealer, for a period of 3 months for commercial imports, 2 months for imports of raw materials and packing materials by industrial importers, and 5 months for imports of capital machinery and spare parts. Authorized dealers may, subsequent to the month of registration of the above documents, allow remit- tances within a period of 12 months for the importation of commercial items and industrial raw materials and packing materials and up to 18 months for the importa- tion of capital machinery and spare parts. If the import- ers require further time to make remittances, then authorized dealers may allow such remittances only under the Wage Earners' Scheme or, if applicable, against the surrender of licenses issued under the Export Performance Licensing System, whichever the importer chooses. The validity period of licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued for imports under aid, loans, and barter is announced from time to time. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme a provision exists for the importation of a large number of items against letters of credit opened on a deferred payment basis. The same provision is also available for the importation of all raw materials, spare parts, and consumer goods against import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued against the cash foreign exchange resources of the country or under the Export Performance Licensing system. The deferred payment period is usually up to a maximum of 120 days, except in the case of raw materials and packing materials for the pharmaceutical industry; the deferred payment period then is a maximum of 360 days. The opening of import letters of credit is subject to margin requirements ranging, for imports at the official exchange rate, from 5 percent of value for public sector imports to not less than 25 percent for most private commercial imports; for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing Scheme, the margin requirement ranges from 10 percent for essential goods to 100 percent for some luxury consumer goods. Imports of books and periodicals up to specified limits are permissible on a consignment basis. Public sector importers, however, may import on a cash against documents basis. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is, subject to the availability of funds, governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries BANGLADESH during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Industries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply, however, to raw materials and packing materials that are imported under either the Wage Earners' System or the Export Perform- ance License Scheme. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under the Export Performance Licensing System all registered exporters (other than those of jute, jute goods, and loose tea) are entitled to apply to Bangladesh Bank for issuance of Import Entitlement Certificates. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and have a validity period of six months, may be converted into import licenses for the importation of goods eligible under the system. The entitlements are 80 percent, 60 percent, and 40 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports, depending on the domestic value added. Any new product entering the export market will automatically be granted a 40 percent entitlement rate pending determina- tion of the actual percentage of entitlement. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for busi- ness travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis; as a rule, for business travel exporters with export earnings of Tk 2.5 million or more during the preceding year are entitled to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum US$10,000 a year; those with export earnings of less than Tk 2.5 million during the preceding year are entitled to an allowance of US$80 a day for a maximum of 30 days a year; for medical treatment the amount granted is US$1,000 at the official rate and up to US$3,000 at the rate under the Wage Earners' Scheme. A Bangladesh national proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangla- desh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance purposes; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of £ stg. 200 a month (net 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH of tax) for nationals of countries other than India, and up to Tk 1,500 for Indian nationals, if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and traveler's checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money chang- ers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 500 or 25 percent of the amount converted, whichever is smaller, into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their exit. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh nationals may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa and exports transported on the flag vessels of Taiwant are pro- hibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts or in Nonresi- dent Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. All Bangla- desh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their posses- sion, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival; no declaration is required for import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$150 by nonresidents or US$25 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident- owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshis. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the trans- fer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. 90 Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangla- desh origin requires approval. Borrowing by nonresi- dent-owned or nonresident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceil- ings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral out- side Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized deal- ers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangla- desh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to resi- dents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collab- oration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The Act provides, inter alia, for protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, in- demnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of invest- ment. In the private sector, however, foreign partici- pation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors ge<L orally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 11. The Bangladesh Bank changed the mid- rate of the taka against the pound sterling from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Tk 38.0068 = £ stg. 1 to Tk 38.4220 = £ stg. 1, representing a devaluation of 1.08 percent. July 10. The Bangladesh Bank announced that, in order to prevent the secondary market buying rate for the U.S. dollar from falling below the official selling rate for the U.S. dollar, the reserve price for the sale of U.S. dollars through auction on the secondary market would, until further notice, be the official U.S. dollar selling rate on the auction date or on the following day, whichever was higher. August 24. The Bangladesh Bank changed the mid-rate of the taka against the pound sterling from Tk 38.4220 = £ stg. 1 to Tk 39.0000 = £ stg. 1, representing a 1.48 percent depreciation of the taka against the pound sterling. Prescription of Currency April 5. The eleventh baiter protocol between Bangla- desh and the U.S.S.R. was signed. May 29. The seventh barter protocol between Bangla- desh and Romania was signed. August 11. The sixth barter protocol between Bang- ladesh and the People's Republic of China was signed. December 9. The seventh barter protocol between Bangladesh and Czechoslovakia was signed. Nonresident Accounts June 11. A new facility in the form of Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts was introduced with effect from June 15, 1982. Imports and Import Payments February 5. The Bangladesh Bank announced that for purposes of remittances, letter of credit authorization forms in respect of commercial imports would remain valid for 12 months subsequent to their month of registration, rather than for 9 months as had previously been the case. February 13. Commercial importers were permitted to finance half of their import entitlements of most indus- trial items with funds purchased under the Wage Earn- ers' Scheme. March 10. The validity of all Import Entitlement Certificates issued under the Export Performance Licens- ing System was lengthened from three months to six months from the date of their issuance. April 10. The number of items that could be imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme was reduced by banning imports of refined palm oil, crude palm oil, and sanitary ware. April 13. The facility under which commercial import- ers were able to finance half of their import entitlements with funds purchased under the Wage Earners' Scheme was withdrawn. April 25. The number of importable items under the Wage Earners' Scheme was further reduced. The elimi- nated items included cellophane paper, dry cell batteries, electric bulbs, electric ceiling fans, certain bicycle parts, steel rods, electrical switches, hand sprayers, locks and BANGLADESH telephones, and ships padlocks, torchlights, office weighing up to 1,000 tons. April 30. Concessional duties on imports of all raw materials, capital equipment, and certain other items through the Wage Earners' Scheme were abolished. June 24. The margin requirements for opening letters of credit for the importation of raw materials, spare parts, and specified essential items were reduced from a minimum of 15 percent to a minimum of 10 percent. June 28. The entitlement rates for the issuance of Import Entitlement Certificates under the Export Per- formance Licensing System were changed from 60 percent and 40 percent of the net f .o .b. value of foreign exchange earnings to 80 percent, 60 percent, or 40 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports; any new export products entering the market would automatically be entitled to the 40 percent rate pending determination of the actual percentage of entitlement. July 8. The Import Policy Order for 1982/83 was issued, introducing a number of changes in the import system as summarized below: (a) the Open General License, under which any importer could import any one or more of the listed items up to specific limits, was abolished, and 17 of the 19 items previously listed were transferred to either the commercial, the Wage Earners' Scheme, or Export Performance Licensing system lists; (b) the Actual User Scheme, under which final consum- ers had obtained official foreign exchange to import 19 items up to specific or value limits, was abolished; such users could henceforth import only through the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing System, within specific limits; (c) access to official foreign exchange for the importation of automobile spare parts by sole agents was discontinued; such importation could henceforth be made only through the Wage Earners' Scheme or the Export Performance Licensing System; (d) authorized dealers, rather than the licensing authority, were permitted to extend the validity period of import licenses or letter of credit authorization forms, or both; (e) the need for proof of utilization of previous im- port entitlements as a requirement of eligibility for new entitlements was abolished; (f) the submission of state- ments on past production and payment of excise duty by industrial importers was placed on an ad hoc, rather than a mandatory basis, and the need for endorsements from sponsoring agencies was abolished; (g) annual, instead of semiannual, licenses were introduced for industrial importers with annual settlements of Tk 100,000 or less, without disaggregating licenses by commodity, as was done previously; (h) authorization was granted for deferred payment for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (i) public agencies were made eligible to import under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (j) the list of goods importable exclusively under the Wage Earners' Scheme was enlarged from 104 to 120 categories; (k) items listed as importable under the commercial and industrial lists were made importable under the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing System; (1) the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh was 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH made the sole importer of medium steel billets, arms and ammunition, cast-iron sheets (up to 26 BWG (Birming- ham wire gauge)); (m) an additional list of 66 industries were granted access to imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing System only; (n) the official cash allocations for items previously importable under Open General License and now listed under the commercial list were generally reduced; (o) the exchange entitlements of the pharmaceutical and other industries were reduced, and the number of nonphar- maceutical industries enjoying entitlements was reduced from 317 to 253. August 17. The Bangladesh Bank specified that authorized dealers would, until further notice, be entitled to buy on their own account Import Entitlement Certifi- cates issued under the Export Performance Licensing System. The price payable by authorized dealers for these certificates should reflect the spread between the dealers spot buying rate for foreign exchange and the official spot selling rate for foreign exchange. Import Entitlement Certificates as purchased by the authorized dealers could be sold to the Bangladesh Bank by adding a margin of Tk 0.0150 per US$1 and Tk 0.0250 per £ stg. 1. The sale of Import Entitlement Certificates to authorized dealers would be optional; the original holders of the certificates were free to sell them to other importers under their own arrangement. December 1. Eligibility for importation on a deferred payments basis was extended to the importation of all raw materials, spare parts, and consumer goods against import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued against cash or under the Export Performance Licensing System. December 5. The margin deposit requirements for opening letters of credit for importation by industrial importers in the private sector were reduced from a minimum of 15 percent to a minimum of 10 percent; for commercial importers in the private sector, the margin deposit requirements for opening letters of credit against cash, credit, barter, the Wage Earners' Scheme, and the Export Performance Licensing System were reduced from a minimum of 15 percent to a minimum of 10 percent for most essential items and from a minimum of 50 percent to a minimum of 25 percent for some nonessential items. Payments for Invisibles June 28. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel by exporters was changed to (a) 1 percent of the f.o.b value of exports, subject to a maximum of US$10,000 a year for exporters with export earnings of Tk 2.5 million or more in the preceding year; or (b) an allowance of US$80 a day, subject to a maximum of 30 days a year, for exporters with export earnings of less than Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year. Previously, the amounts allowed had been US$50 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 a year, for exporters whose total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk 2.5 million or above, and a maximum of US$1,500 for those whose export earnings had been less than Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year. Exports and Export Proceeds June 28. The export policy for 1982/83 was pub- lished. In addition to the changes noted above with respect to the entitlement rates under the Export Per- formance Licensing System and the allowances for business travel by exporters, the policy modified existing practices as follows: (a) authorization was granted for export credit for nontraditional items to be made avail- able at a concessional rate of interest, not to exceed the Bangladesh Bank rate by more than 1 percent; (b) refinancing facilities under the Export Credit Guaran- tee Scheme would be allowed at a reduced rate of 8.5 percent for traditional items and 8 percent for nontradi- tional items, as against the previous rate of 10.5 percent and 9.0 percent, respectively; (c) the import license permit fee for the importation of machinery for export- oriented industries was abolished; and (d) excise duty payments on finished leather used for the manufacture of export products were refundable. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0300, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 percent buying and 1.6250 percent selling. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.6158 and BDS$1.6452, respec- tively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$0.8384 and BDS$0.8536, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$3.2279 and BDS$3.2866, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean and Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the com- mission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remit- tances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank in amounts ranging from the equivalent of 4 percent to less than 1 percent of the value of the transaction. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an author- ized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs. 'The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the ap- proved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of Bar- bados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the condi- tions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to author- ized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM countries require individual licenses. The use of import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy, since tariff policy is pre-empted by CARICOM. The list of 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Imports of automobiles are subject to a value quota; the quota for 1982 was fixed at US$18.9 million, compared with US$27.6 million in 1981. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (particularly agricul- tural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for certain garments, the importation of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a minimum c . i . f. value. Indi- vidual licenses are also required for imports of com- modities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to authorized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel within or outside the CARICOM area, and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel within the CARICOM area, and BDS$6,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to 94 the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of ship- ment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Bar- bados, and earnings on these securities must be repa- triated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Trans- fers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents with exchange control ap- proval, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control ap- proval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Bar- bados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinar- ily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. BARBADOS permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Bar- bados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 24. Accessories and equipment for gambling or parlor games (excluding gaming machinery) were placed on the list of items requiring import licenses. August 20. Machinery for use in harvesting and loading of sugarcane was placed on the list of goods requiring import licenses. September 17. Cocoa powder, brooms, brushes, and mops (excluding sponge mops) were placed on the list of items requiring import licenses. October 5. Settlement of payments for imports of crude oil and derivatives were no longer delegated to authorized dealers but were made subject to prior permission by the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, and BDS$200 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are Gold February 21. The Central Bank of Barbados issued a BDS$250 gold coin in commemoration of the 250th anniversary of George Washington's birthday. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc. The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc, which, in accordance with a Luxembourg decree, is at par with the Belgian franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary association. Belgium and Lux- embourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates between the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1982 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 100 deutsche mark 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 558.60 534.00 695.40 664.80 1,970.85 1,884.00 66.56 63.6315 35.360 31.365 1,782.85 1,704.45 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente or regulated) market and the free market, which are separated: foreign currency acquired in one market may not be sold in the other. Most current transactions are settled in the official market; only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official market most convertible currencies are dealt.l However, although Zai'rian currency (the zai're) is 'Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. The Australian dollar and the South African rand are not officially quoted. 96 officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zai're for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender convertible currencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery (on the delivery date itself if the maturity of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not used to cover authorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in the official market were BF 46.83 and BF 47.01, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including domestic and foreign bank notes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1982 the free market rates between banks for the U .S. dollar were BF 48.07 buy ing and BF 48.17 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transaction. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Banks in Luxembourg may not accept deposits in Luxembourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F 1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (IBLC). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Com- mission has authority to license trade transactions; it ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Bank Commission, and in Luxembourg by the Bank Commissioner. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, although the BLEU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreement) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commer- cial expenses, including insurance, administrative ex- penses of sales agencies, and sharing in administrative expenses of central offices by branches and affiliates. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG List B covers settlements of travel agencies, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public adminis- tration payments. It also includes family support pay- ments by emigrant workers of foreign nationality. List C covers (1) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits; and (2) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital invest- ments, liquidation of long-term investments and trans- fers by emigrants of foreign nationality, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nation- ality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transac- tions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, import and export of diamonds, including related costs, may only be paid for in foreign currencies through the free market, or SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments Convertible Convertible NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* Convertible } Convertible or Financial Financial or Convertible Bilateral or Convertible* } Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral or Convertible* Convertible Convertible Bilateral Convertible Convertible A ,B C D A ,B ,C ,D A,B C D A,B C D Any Any Official Official or Free Free Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Official Official or Free Free Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Bilateral Convertible Other Official or Free Free Bilateral Any Free *Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with Zaire may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zai'res held with banks in Zaire. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG in Belgian or Luxembourg francs by means of nonresi- dent Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.2 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for set- tlements with residents, which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxem- bourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be trans- ferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail- credit advances are subject to authorization by the IBLC. A minimum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain periods for mail-credit advances in Con- vertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.3 They may be used freely for settlements, which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic bank notes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign bank notes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Ac- counts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries and are related to the 2 International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of these organizations and representations may maintain Special Convertible Accounts which may be credited with their remuneration in Belgian francs, provided they agree in writing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover their current expenses in the BLEU. 3Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic representations accredited in the BLEU and by specified international organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. 98 country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of bal- ances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account must be credited or debited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam ,4 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.5 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricul- tural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum prod- ucts, diamonds and weapons. All other commodities are free of license; the sole requirement is a form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration—model A), which must be pre- sented to an authorized bank. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in value. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantita- tive restriction. Along with other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. An authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance; prior examination of supporting documents by 4 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U .S .S .R. 5 Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 25 million and for payments made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance. However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a docu- mentary collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such payment is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. For payments exceeding BF 25 million and in other excep- tional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); pay- ments to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convert- ible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricul- tural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.6 All other exports are free of license; only a form (notice of export—model B) completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export must be presented to an authorized bank. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to verify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authori- zation is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an 6 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official exchange market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles con- nected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B— see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official market, to abstain temporarily from making new de- posits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign bank notes. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out through the free market, by set- tlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial nature, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign in- vestments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (under special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be re- patriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresi- dents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by international organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally per- mitted. The Luxembourg authorities have, from time to time, permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxem- bourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Ac- counts or, in the case of Zaire, in zai'res; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; settlements in respect of gold transactions in coins or bars with convertible area countries may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value- added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Imports of gold for industrial, artistic, or medical use may be paid through the official market. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements February 22. The bilateral central rates and interven- tion rates between the Belgian and Luxembourg francs and the currencies of the other participants in the EMS were modified. June 14. Changes were made in the bilateral central rates and intervention rates between the Belgian and Luxembourg francs, on the one hand, and the deutsche mark, the Netherlands guilder, the Italian lira, and the 100 French franc, on the other hand, as the result of a general realignment in the EMS. Exchange Control Territory September 17. With the objective of reducing the net liabilities position in Luxembourg francs of banks in Luxembourg (and the corresponding net asset position in Belgian francs), the Luxembourg Bank Commissioner decreed that banks could no longer accept deposits in Luxembourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F 1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Sight or savings deposits held by residents in Luxembourg were not affected. Prescription of Currency February 22. The Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange Institute decreed that, not later than March 22, 1982, all foreign exchange holdings in "regulated" accounts should either be used or be sold for Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs at the official exchange rate; term deposits in such accounts beyond March 22, 1982 would no longer be permitted. In the event of sale in the official market, all gains from exchange rate appreciation in excess of BF 1,000 were required to be transferred to the Treasury. April 1. The item entitled "sharing in administrative expenses of central offices by branches or affiliates" was deleted from List C and added to List A. April 1. Holders of Regulated Resident Accounts were required to use holdings on these accounts by priority whenever they make an authorized payment through the official exchange market. In addition, holders of Regu- lated Resident Accounts were required to agree in writing to the provisions of the exchange regulation, whereby the IBLC could order them to sell part or all of these holdings in the official market, to abstain tempo- rarily from making new deposits and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. April 1. It was announced that transfers of up to BF 20,000 a month could be made by Belgian or Luxem- bourg nationals or residents through the official ex- change market on behalf of dependents enrolled in institutions of higher education outside the BLEU. Nonresidents Accounts June 1. It was announced that, with immediate effect, foreign staff of embassies and international organizations established in the BLEU could again arrange to have 100 percent of their salaries deposited in a Special Conver- tible Account, provided they agreed in writing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover their current expenses in the BLEU. Gold March 1. The value-added tax on transactions in monetary gold in Belgium was reduced from 6 percent to 1 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks are BZ$ 1.9937 and BZ$2.0063, respectively. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the administration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is dele- gated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applica- tions for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. Trade controls are adminis- tered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. Nonresident Accounts Permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Import and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic in- dustries, import licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industry are required for a number of goods, mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and 1 On June 14, 1983 Belize notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Agreement. 2Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, U .S. dollars, and the currencies of the member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM). The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. construction products; such licenses are liberally ad- ministered. There are no quota limits nor other quantita- tive restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Goods imported into the country are subject to import duties, ad valorem, in many cases, and specific, in others. Imports by the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. All imports are subject to a stamp duty of 5 percent of the c . i . f. value. Payment for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments below certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (a) nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$ 1,500 a person a calendar year; (b) business travel by residents, BZ$200 a day a person, up to BZ$6,000 a year; (c) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (d) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year; and (e) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each traveler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most of the export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless determined otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of between 2 percent and 5 percent. Re-exports and transshipments are subject to a 2 percent administrative fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resident travelers are 3Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, wild animals, and sugar. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE required to sell their excess holdings of foreign curren- cies to an authorized dealer upon return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require approval of the Central Bank but control is liberally administered. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may neither be imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement November 11. Retroactive to January 1, 1982, the Monetary Authority of Belize was converted to a central a 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc ,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's exchange con- trol measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Camer- oon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries, but for purposes of certain capital controls, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the the Direc- torate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibil- ity for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is author- ized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. l rThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe de 1'Alimen- tation Generate du Benin (AGB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed m i lk, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Certain other agencies have an import monopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in member countries cf the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Devel- opment (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject 3There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program. Under this program, a global quota is established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa" are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank 104 notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the Operations Account countries; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travel- er's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Com- merce. The due date of payment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination; irrespective of the currency of payment, the proceeds must be remitted through an authorized domiciliary bank within one month of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government and (2) shares that are similar to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.4 Foreign direct investments in Be- nin5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postponement of the operations, within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. BENIN authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides, during a period of up to 5 years, for exemption from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item and from certain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises undertaking to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. For Plans A, B, and C up to two years for installation time can be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974 it has been pegged to the Indian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined daily on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. In the absence of large transactions, ex- change rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exchange rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 9.1752 and Nu 10.1156 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on foreign exchange transactions. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions.1 Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from the Ministry lrThe Royal Monetary Authority was established on August 4, 1982 to take over from the Ministry of Finance the responsibility for monetary affairs. of Finance. The Ministry has discretionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties exist on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes or subsidies. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin are prohibited. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Ministry of Finance. Payments for and Receipts from Invisibles All invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surren- dered to the Ministry of Finance. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments August 4. The Royal Monetary Authority was estab- lished to take over responsibility for monetary affairs from the Ministry of Finance. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso. On November 5, 1982 the authorities replaced the dual exchange market system, introduced earlier in the year, with a unified exchange system at a rate of $b 200 per US$1. The official buying rate is $b 196.00 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized commercial banks and exchange houses are subject to a central bank handling charge of 0.15 percent, or $b 0.29, and a National Treasury tax of 1.8 percent, or $b 3.53. In addition, a banking commission of $b 0.18 is charged, bringing the effective selling rate of authorized commer- cial banks and exchange houses to $b 200 per US$1. Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies are allowed to purchase foreign exchange from sources such as the tourist industry at a premium of 8 percent over the buying rate established by the Central Bank; the 8 percent premium is reimbursed by the Central Bank, together with a commission of 2 percent. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control All receipts and expenditure of foreign exchange are subject to state control. They are regulated by the Exchange Policy Board, which is chaired by a represen- tative of the Ministry of Finance and includes in addition representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Coordi- nation, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tour- ism, the Central Bank of Bolivia, and the Office of the Controller-General of the Republic. The Foreign Trade Council is responsible for approving or rejecting all applications for the purchase of currency for im- port purposes, in accordance with the Government's general guidelines, rules, and priorities. The Council also enforces, supervises, and evaluates the mandatory surrender of exchange by exporters. The Council is also responsible for the publication, in the official gazette, of the lists of individuals and entities to which foreign exchange has been allocated. All applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for import purposes must be submitted to the Central Bank of Bolivia through the banks. The Central Bank then considers applications in accordance with the applicable rules and forwards them for approval or rejection to the Foreign Trade Council. 'Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Exchange allocations approved by the Council are administered by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U .S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilat- eral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All public and private imports are subject to prior authorization by the Exchange Policy Board. Imports by public sector agencies require in addition authorization by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Health is authorized to draw up regulations governing the alloca- tion of foreign exchange for the import of medical supplies. Import applications must be consistent with the official foreign exchange budget. Importation of some 600 products, which are considered nonessential or produced domestically, is temporarily prohibited. Prod- ucts covered by the agreements signed between Bolivia and the Latin American Integration Association are exempt from this prohibition. All imports must be covered by letters of credit drawn on foreign banks. Applicants for import authorization must present photocopies of import documents, such as the invoice, description of the articles purchased, and a clearance from the Bolivian tax administration that the applicant is not in arrears on taxes. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 percent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to an "additional tax," to an import surcharge of 3 percent, and to a tax on services rendered of 1 percent to 8 percent. Payments for Invisibles Private banks require prior authorization from the Central Bank for selling foreign exchange to finance import of invisibles. Foreign exchange for purposes of foreign travel, students' subsistence, and health treat- ment abroad is allocated by the Central Bank in accordance with available foreign exchange assets and the standards and priorities determined by the Govern- ment. Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 500 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 250 for overland travel to such countries, $b 1,000 for air travel to Central American countries, and $b 1,500 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, al- though certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the Mining Bank that of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on the Central Bank of Bolivia. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies are allowed to purchase foreign exchange from sources such as tourism at a premium of 8 percent over the buying rate established by the Central Bank. This foreign exchange must be sold to the Central bank during the first hour on the business day after the purchase. The 8 percent premium plus a commission of 2 percent is reimbursed by the Central Bank. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased from the banks only upon approval by the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Central Bank. Most foreign loans must be registered with the National Investment Institute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involv- ing petroleum and mining, are governed by the provi- sions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on 108 the domestic market subject to conditions that it estab- lishes jointly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requirements of gold from the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other produc- ers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 5. Dealings in the parallel foreign exchange market were declared illegal. February 5. Supreme Decree No. 18889 established a tax of 1.8 percent on sales of foreign exchange in the official and free markets. February 5. Supreme Decree No. 18841 authorized the Central Bank to alter the official exchange rate, which the Bank changed from $b 25 per US$1 to $b 44 per US$1. In addition the 1.6 percent tax on foreign exchange transactions and the 0.2 percent stamp tax were abolished. March 22. Supreme Decree No. 18890 established a dual exchange system with the following provisions: (a) the Central Bank was authorized to provide foreign exchange at the official rate only to the Central Govern- ment and for the Bank's own external debt service obligations; (b) supply in this market would consist of the sources specified in Decree-Law 18889 as well as external borrowing by the Central Government and Central Bank; (c) the commercial banks and exchange houses were authorized to operate in the free market; (d) the tax on sales of foreign exchange was reintroduced at a rate of 1.8 percent; (e) obligations incurred by importers from LAIA sources were required to be settled in dollars; and (f) the exchange control regulations under Decree-Law 18530 were rescinded. July 13. Supreme Decree No. 19046 exempted free market exchange transactions by the commercial banks and the exchange houses from the 1.8 percent tax on foreign exchange sales and levied a tax of 1 percent on the face value of letters of credit; proceeds from the tax would accrue to the Treasury. November 5. The dual exchange market system was abolished, and a unified exchange rate was introduced with effect from November 8, 1982, at a rate of $b 200 = US$1. Imports and Import Payments February 5. Supreme Decree No. 18846 authorized the Ministry of Health to draw up regulations governing the allocation of foreign exchange for the importation of medical supplies. February 5. Supreme Decree No. 18830 modified customs duties in the form of narrowing the dispersion of tariff rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 5. Supreme Decree No. 19250 stipulated that all import payments should be covered by letters of credit drawn on foreign banks. In addition, Supreme Decree No. 19251 temporarily prohibited importation of some 600 products, considered nonessential or produced domestically, w i th the exception of products covered by the agreements between Bolivia and member countries of the LAI A. Payments for Invisibles November 6. It was announced that foreign exchange for purposes of foreign travel, students' subsistence, and health treatment abroad would be allocated by the Central Bank in accordance with the availability of foreign exchange and the standards and priorities of the Government. Exports and Export Proceeds March 22. Supreme Decree No. 18889 modified the export surrender requirement to 40 percent of proceeds, net of commercialization charges and of royalty pay- ments denominated in foreign exchange. In addition, certain incentives applied to nontraditional exports under Supreme Decree No. 18710 were abolished. July 13. Supreme Decree No. 19048 reintroduced fiscal incentives for nontraditional exports. November 5. Taxes were temporarily increased or introduced on a number of nontraditional exports. BOLIVIA November 5. A requ irement was reintroduced that all foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services should be surrendered to the Central Bank. In addition, all exports of goods and services were required to be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on the Central Bank of Bo l iv ia. Proceeds from Invisibles November 5. Au thor iza t ion was granted for banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies to purchase foreign exchange from sources such as the tourist industry at a premium of 8 percent over the buying rate established by the Central Bank. Such foreign exchange was required to be sold to the Central Bank during the first hour on the business day fo l low ing the purchase; the 8 percent prem ium p lus a commission of 2 percent would be reimbursed by the Central Bank. Capital November 3. Supreme Decree No. 19249 made it no longer permissible for domestic contracts to be de- nominated in U .S. dollars; all such contracts, inc lud ing bank deposits and loans (but exc lud ing mortgage con- tracts, wh ich were covered by other arrangements), had to be converted into pesos at a rate of $b 145.40 = US$1. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of equal amounts for the SDR and the South African rand. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were P 1.0597 and P 1.0624, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the middle rate for the SDR was P 1.1701 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currenciesl are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving be- tween the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Bots- wana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits, regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be re- ceived in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semipre- 1 Deutsche mark, South African rand, pounds sterling, and Zim- babwe dollars. cious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits —such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 1,000 for a child. The allowance for business travel is P 130 a day, up to a max imum of P 5,000 a calendar year. The annual limit on remittances and tourist travel by temporary residents is P 6,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater. Separately, travel- ers may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coin and take out P 75 in such bank notes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the mainte- nance of "Retained Accounts" at banks abroad for residents who make frequent foreign payments; these accounts are subject to ceilings. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are decided according to their merits but are generally granted favorable consideration. Tie rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is temporarily a resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. There is a terminal allowance of P 6,000 for departing temporary residents. Local borrowing by nonresident-controlled companies in Botswana is limited to P 100,000 in the first instance; such borrowing by nonresident-controlled companies must be matched one-to-one with inward capital transfers. Changes during 1982 Capital May 14. The administrative agreement between the Bank of Botswana and the commercial banks, which dated from February 1982, was formally promulgated; the consequent changes in existing practices were mainly (a) reduction from P 200,000 to P 100,000 in the limit below which loan financing could be provided to nonresident-controlled companies without matching nonresident funds; (b) application of the one-to-one rule to only that part of local financing requirements above P 100,000; and (c) inclusion of various forms of financial accommodation in the definition of local financing, including bill discounting, acceptance credits, letters of credit, leasing, "floor plan" finance, install- ment finance, guarantees, and trade credits. no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B R A Z IL (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement T he c u r r e n cy of B r a z il is the C r u z e i r o. S i n ce A u g u st 1968 B r a z il has f o l l o w ed a f l e x i b le e x c h a n ge rate p o l i cy und er w h i ch the e x c h a n ge rate for the c r u z e i ro is ad jus ted at r e l a t i v e ly sho rt i n t e r v a ls in te rms of i ts i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y, the U . S. d o l l a r. T h e se adjust­ men ts take i n to a c c o u nt (1) the m o v em e nt in p r i c es in B r a z il r e l a t i ve to that in i ts m a in t r a d i ng p a r tn e r s, (2) the l e v el of f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge r e s e r v e s, (3) e x p o rt p e r fo r­ m a n c e, a nd (4) the o v e r a ll b a l a n ce of p a ym e n ts p o s i t i o n. E x c h a n ge t r an s a c t ions are c a r r i ed out by the C e n t r al B a nk of B r a z i l, the B a n co do B r a s il S . A ., a nd by b a n ks a nd tou r i st ag en c i es a u t h o r i z ed to d e al in f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e; the tou r i st a g e n c i es d e al o n ly in b a nk no tes and t r a v e l e r 's c h e c ks in a "m a n u al m a r k e t ." U n i f o r m i ty b e tw e en the rates q u o t ed by the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es a nd the e f f e c t i ve rates of the a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks is en su r ed by the p r a c t i ce of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es of s t a n d i ng r e ady to p u r c h a se e x c h a n ge f r om the b a n ks a nd to s e ll it to the b a n ks at the o f f i c i al rate for a p p r o v ed t r a n s a c t i o n s. On D e c em b er 3.1, 1982 the b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates q u o t ed by the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es to the p u b l ic w e re C r $ 2 5 1 . 41 and C r $ 2 5 2 . 6 7, r e s p e c t i v e l y, p er U S $ 1. T he same e x c h a n ge rates are a p p l i c a b le to " ag r e em ent d o l l a r s" u s ed f or se t t lemen ts w i th b i l a t e r al ag reement c o u n t r i e s. R a t es for o th er c u r r e n c i es are b a s ed on the U . S. d o l l ar rates in B r a z il a nd the rates for the r e s p e c t i ve c u r r e n c i es in N ew Y o rk a nd E u r o p e. W i th s p e c i f i ed e x c e p t i o n s, f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge t r an s a c t ions are sub ject to b r o k e r a ge fees, c a l c u l a t ed on a s l i d i ng s c a l e, w h i ch re su lt in e f f e c t ive rates of up to 3/ i6 of 1 p e r c ent on e i th er s ide of the rates set by the m o n e t a ry a u t h o r i t i e s. On the b u y i ng s i d e, o th er e f f e c t i ve rates r e su lt f r om the f o l l o w i ng a r rangemen ts i n v o l v i ng the c o l l e c t i on of l e v i es in f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge or at the p o i nt of e x c h a n ge se t t lement at the b a n k s: (1) u n d er D e c r e e - L aw N o. 1578 of O c t o b er 1 1, 1 9 7 7, the N a t i o n al M o n e t a ry C o u n c il c an im p o se an e x p o rt l e vy in the f o rm of a tax at the rate of 10 p e r c ent ( w h i ch c an be l o w e r ed or be r a i s ed up to 40 pe rcen t) a nd ad v a l o r em e x p o rt l e v i es on o r ange and tange r ine j u i ce at a rate of 1 p e r c e n t, c o r nm e al at a rate of 5 p e r c e n t, a nd r aw s a l t ed h i d es of c a l v e s, o ther b e ef ca t t le a nd bu f f a lo es at a rate of 9 pe rcen t; (2) s p e c i al l e v i es ( " c o n t r i b u t i on quo t a s ") on e x p o r ts of c o c oa beans a nd c o c oa p r o d u c ts at a rate of 10 p e r c ent and 5 p e r c en t, a nd on co f fee at rates v a r y i ng w i th the t y pe of co f fee (see s e c t i on on E x p o r ts a nd E x p o rt P r o c e e d s, b e l o w ); a nd (3) tax c r ed i ts on i n d i r e ct f e d e r al a nd state v a l u e - a d d ed t ax e s, g r an t ed at a rate of 11 p e r c ent of f . o . b. v a l ue for expo r ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed g o o d s. ( C e r t a in m a n u f a c t u r ed expo r ts to the U n i t ed S ta tes are sub ject to e x p o rt taxes at rates e q u al to or l a r g er than the tax c r e d i t s .) On the s e l l i ng s i d e, a d i f fe rent e f f e c t i ve rate a r ises f r om the p r o v i s i on of the F o r e i gn Inv e s tm ent L aw w h i ch sp e c i f i es that the s um of net p r o f i ts and d i v i d e n ds e f f e c t i v e ly r em i t t ed to p e r sons a nd c om p a n i es r e s id ent ab ro ad is sub ject to a s u p p l em e n t a ry i n c ome tax w h en the ave rage of a c t u al r em i t t an c es in any th r e e -y e ar p e r i od is in ex c e ss of 12 pe rcent of r e g i s t e r ed c a p i t al a nd r e i n v e s tm e n t. A n o t h er e f f e c t i ve rate a r i ses f r om the a p p l i c a t i on of a f i n a n c i al t r an s a c t ions tax (imposto sobre operacdes de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre opera- goes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliares) of 25 pe rcent to pu r ch a s es of f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge f or im p o r ts of g o o ds a nd s e r v i c e s, w i th s p e c i f i ed e x em p t i o n s. F or im p o r ts of g o o ds o r i g i n a t i ng in L A 1A m em b er c o u n t r i es and that h a ve b e en n ego t i a t ed u n d er L A I A 's c u s t oms ag reemen t s, and for im p o r ts i n to the M a n a us du ty - f r ee z o n e, the tax rate is 20 p e r c ent a nd 10 p e r c e n t, r e s p e c t i v e l y. F or r em i t t an c es of l e a s i ng fees for c a p i t al g o o d s, the tax rate is 90 pe rcent of the rate a p p l i c a b le to m e r c h a n d i se im p o r t s. T he B a n co do B r a s il S . A ., the B a n co da A m a z o n ia S . A ., the B a n co do N o r d e s te do B r a s il S . A. a nd the B a n co N a c i o n al de C r e d i to C o o p e r a t i vo S . A ., a c t i ng on th e ir o wn b e h a l f, c a r ry out a c o n s i d e r a b le p r o p o r t i on of a ll e x c h a n ge t r a n s a c t i o n s, i n c l u d i ng those of a ll p u b l ic sec tor a g e n c i e s. T h ey s e ll f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge f or the r equ i r em en ts of the G o v e r nm e nt at the e x c h a n ge rate p r e v a i l i ng on the date of the t r a n s a c t i o n. E x c h a n ge t ran sac t ions in the c u r r e n c i es of b i l a t e r al p a r tn er c o u n­ t r ies are e f fec ted by the a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s, w h i ch se t t le t h em w i th the C e n t r al B a n k. G l o b al d a i ly l i m i ts are f i x ed for the a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s' bought and s o ld p o s i t i o ns in f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e. T he l im i ts are f i x ed in r e l a t i on to the r e g i s t e r ed c a p i t al of e a ch b a n k; a b a nk h a v i ng r e g i s t e r ed c a p i t al of up to C r $ 5 00 m i l l i on m ay m a i n t a in a b o u g ht or s o ld p o s i t i on of up to U S $ 7 5 0 , 0 0 0; o v er a nd a b o ve that f i n a n c i al b a s e, a b a nk is a l l o w ed a b o u g ht p o s i t i on of U S $ 1 .5 m i l l i on and a s o ld p o s i t i on of up to U S $ 7 .5 m i l l i o n. B a n ks that are a u t h o r i z ed to ope ra te e x c l u s i v e ly in the m a n u al m a rk et and tou r i st ag en c i es are p e rm i t t ed to m a i n t a in a bought p o s i t i on of up to U S $ 2 5 , 0 00 f or e a ch a u t h o r i z ed b r a n c h, but m ay not m a i n t a in a s o ld p o s i t i o n. T he C e n t r al B a nk s u p p l i es f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge to a u t h o r i z ed b anks in amoun ts not e x c e e d i ng tho se n e e d ed to e l i m i­ nate an o v e r s o ld p o s i t i o n, a nd l i m i t ed to 90 p e r c ent of the e x c h a n ge s o ld by the b a nk c o n c e r n ed to i ts c u s t om e rs d u r i ng the same d ay or on the p r e v i o us d a y; i n c l u d ed in th is l i m it is t h e ir m a n u al m a r k et p o s i t i on ( b a nk no tes and t r a v e l e r 's c h e c k s ). T he C e n t r al B a nk s u p p l i es f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge to a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks f or am o r t i z a t i on of f o r e i gn lo ans u n d er R e s o l u t i on N o. 63 a nd r e l a t ed in te rest p a y m e n t s .1 T he b a n ks are p e rm i t t ed to s e ll f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge to e a ch o the r; t rans fe rs b e tw e en b ranches of the same b a nk are a l so a l l o w e d, sub ject to 1A temporary arrangement has been made under wh i ch amortization of pr inc ipal of bank loans in 1983 is to be pa id into a special account maintained by the Central B ank. I ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL certain conditions. Such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Coun- cil, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Department of Foreign Capital Supervision and Registration (FiRCE); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital. General borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Department for International Opera- tions (DEPIN) is in charge of the management of international reserves. Limits on international borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Control of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST) in the Plan- ning Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CoNCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil S.A. (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exporta^do and guias de importaqdo). Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries2 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with coun- tries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U .S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. 2Bilateral accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. 112 Imports and Import Payments The import of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba is prohibited. CACEX has suspended the issuance of import licenses for a large number of "superfluous" imports. The importation of a small number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Government, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Moreover, the importation, leas- ing, or purchasing in the domestic market by the public sector of machinery, equipment, vehicles, and spare parts of foreign origin was limited in 1982 to US$3,027.7 million. All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documenta- tion, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials, and (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued auto- matically if it conforms to a previously submitted indicative annual import plan. Import certificates are issued on an f .o .b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 90 days or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price controls). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half-yearly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' semiannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,3 imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, certain types of used capital goods, and goods to be brought in with foreign financing on a deferred payment basis. For the last-mentioned category, it is a prior condition for the granting of import certificates for specified groups of commodities that importers must arrange external financing with specified minimum maturities ranging between three years and eight years, depending on the type of commodity and the amount of financing in- volved.4 All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX an annual import program as a basis for requesting import 3Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected import requirements. In 1982 these imports were limited to US$3,027.7 million. 4Import transactions below US$100,000 a year for each importer and certain specified imports, including direct imports by public administrative bodies, are exempt from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council (EDC) and without prejudice to commitments under LAI A, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the national economy; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from countries that impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota. The transfer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods originally imported into the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$600 free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Registration with FIRCE is also dependent on a ruling by CACEX that Brazilian firms are unable to supply the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and the related scheme of payments issued by FIRCE. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 10 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place 2 working days in advance of the maturity date. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 percent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions,5 to the contracting of forward exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Such deposits must be transferred to the Central Bank on the working day following the contracting of the exchange operation and are released on the date of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. 5 Imports exempt from the deposit requirement include beef, printing paper for newspapers, magazines, and books, fertilizers, certain agricultural chemicals and related raw materials for their production, and goods imported into the Manaus free zone for use in local production. Also exempt are imports authorized under drawback operations, imports of seeds and fru i ts for planting, and imports of beans, soybeans, corn, onions, and copper ore. BRAZIL Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used in payment for the foreign exchange. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, PET- ROBRAS concludes for each import transaction an indi- vidual foreign exchange contract. At the same time, the Banco do Brasil S.A. concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equivalent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nacionais}; application of such duties may also be affected by the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educational and health purposes. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange without the prior approval of the Central Bank in respect of personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$2,000 a person 18 years old or older; for trips to or initial stopover in Central or South America, the amount is US$500. In both cases, US$100 (or its equivalent in other currencies) is provided in cash or traveler's checks and the remainder, in the form of payment orders. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the age of 2 and 18 years and no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special allowance of US$20,000 a year is available for the travel and representation expenses abroad of firms whose annual exports total at least US$200,000. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FlRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are nor- mally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration; the remittances are subject to withholding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent, but remitters are eligible for a rebate of 40 percent on the tax paid. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (other than capital invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 percent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 percent a year of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent, of net receipts from the sale or manufacture of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles, including travel abroad, are subject to the financial transactions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure com- pliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domes- tic consumption, are prohibited or suspended, and exports of certain other commodities are conditional on 114 prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports with- out exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities, including beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sales contract is based on a price that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed periodically by the IBC for the various types of coffee, although discounts are also authorized. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender, without compensation, a portion of their foreign ex- change proceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are trans- ferred to the Export Product Protection Fund for Coffee. The contribution quotas also are set periodically by the IBC and are fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1982 they were US$50.00 for green or decaffeinated raw-hulled coffee (a bag of 60.5 kilo- grams) and for green or ground-roasted coffee (a bag of 48 kilograms), US$0.75 a pound for spray-dried soluble coffee, and US$0.90 a pound for freeze-dried soluble coffee. Exporters of coffee convert foreign exchange proceeds, after deduction of the contribution quotas, at the official market rate prevailing on the date of exchange contract. Thus, the proceeds received by coffee exporters depend on (1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars), and (3) the official market rate of exchange. During 1982, the IBC continued to make periodic announcements of minimum registration prices, as well as contribution quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and decaffeinated coffee, although not necessarily changing them. The foreign exchange proceeds from all other exports are sold at freely negotiated rates within the limits of the official market. Foreign exchange contracts covering such transactions may be closed either prior to the shipment of goods or within ten working day^ after shipment. Exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensation 10 percent of their exchange proceeds.6 The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. A number of export incentives are in operation, principally for manufactured commodities. Exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state value-added taxes; on Decem- ber 31, 1982, the credit amounted to 11 percent of the f .o .b. value of export. However, for a number of exports 6 Only 5 percent in the case of sugared cocoa powder containing up to 50 percent of cocoa cake. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the United States (primarily textiles, leatherwares, footwear, and certain steel products), export taxes of 11- 19 percent are levied. For exports of ladies' footwear to all destinations, a tax of 19 percent is levied. Various financing programs for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and the commercial banks. These financing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Banco do Brasil S.A. or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Brazilian enterprises rendering services to tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings from tourism, provided that the service is paid for in foreign exchange and that the tourist enterprise converts the exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate.7 Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public and semipublic sector (i.e., direct organs of the Govern- ment, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Besides, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Other- wise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the pro- ceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatri- ation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign BRAZIL exchange and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Brazilian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manu- facturer himself or by a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make portfolio investments in Brazilian commercial and indus- trial securities, provided that transactions are channeled through a Brazilian "investment company" and are effected on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registration with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least two years.8 The minimum participation in portfolio investment com- panies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio investments are exempted from the capital gains tax. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the cur- rency, of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dispropor- tionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essential- ity of the proposed import and of the availability of satisfactory domestic equivalents. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or com- panies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average 7 Application of the relevant Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is still pending implementing regulations. 8 This minimum period was reduced to three months on January 11, 1983. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL exchange rate prevailing between the date on wh ich the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial, inves tmen t, and devel- opment banks and the National Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of financing working capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits inc lude l im i ta t ions on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the u l t ima te borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131 ). Loans under this law also require prior central bank au thor iza t ion, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m in imum term of eight years but no m ax imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and it is released as follows: one third after 60 days from the deposit date, another one third after 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 100 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and is released as follows: 20 percent after 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regulations, on June 23, 1977 the Central Bank authorized vo lun tary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonf inan- cial institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign loans w i th a provision that the operation could be reversed after 30 days. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on December 7, 1979, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) existing vo lun- tary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonf inan- cial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indefinite period, except for funds required for related interest and amortization payments, for transformation of such loans into direct investment or, in certain special cases, upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (2) a mandatory waiting period of 180 days was established for the withdrawal of deposits made in the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, prior notice of 15 days is required. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan t i ta t ive limits on the amount of financial loans for wh ich 116 au tho r iza t ion may be g iven by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized on ly if ma tu r i t ies conform w i th m i n im um requ iremen ts established from t ime to t ime by the Central B ank, w h i ch perm i ts the total of loans outstand- ing to rise on ly to the ex tent that the servicing commit- ments on B r a z i l 's total external indebtedness do not depart from the gu id e l in es set by the Na t ional Monetary Counc i l. At the end of 1982 the Central Bank 's m i n im um acceptable m a t u r i ty was at eight years. How- ever, provided that the f u ll amount of the foreign exchange rema ins committed to Brazil for the m i n im um specified m a t u r i t y, loans to the f inal borrower in B raz i l, as we ll as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the f inal ma tu r i ty of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequen t ly be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require au tho r iza t ion by DEC AM and F IRCE, wh ich consider applications on the ir mer i ts. Approved exchange transac- t ions invo lv ing outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing o f f ic ial market rate. Gold Res iden ts may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in B raz i l. Gold m in ing is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. The domestic negotiation of new ly m ined gold is subject to a m in ing tax of 1 percent, wh ich may be offset against other tax l iab i l i t ies if and when the gold is manu fac tu red. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at international prices. In practice, purchases of gold in the domestic market are made at current domestic prices; the in terna t ional price is considered as a price goal. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs du ty. Imports of rough gold fa ll w i th in the zero range of import du t ies but are subject to the tax on financial transactions. Exports of gold are subject to approval by the Central Bank, wh ich is always the alternative buyer. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement In con t inua t ion of ex is t ing practice, the cruzeiro was depreciated on 39 occasions dur ing 1982, for a cumu la- tive depreciation of 49.4 percent against the U .S. dollar (in terms of U .S. dollars per un it of local currency). Imports and Import Payments January 20. The M in is t ry of Finance announced that the Customs Policy Council (CPA) could suspend the payment of import duties for up to one year on goods imported for re-export, further processing prior to re- export or use in the production of other exports. The CPA could renew such a concession for up to two years. In the case of goods imported for use in the production of capital goods, the CPA could suspend import duties for up to five years, depending on the time needed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the (Portaria finished goods produce and export No. 022). February 1. The annual ceiling on imports, f.o.b. (other than wheat and petroleum and its derivatives) into the Manaus free trade zone was set at US$500 million (Decree No. 86,890). March 4. CACEX published a new list of items for which the issuing of import licenses had been suspended (CACEX Communication No. 7). The new list implied the permission to import almost 50 items or groups of items that had been prohibited since January 1977. April 28. Imports of certain beef cattle hides and skins were exempted from the tax on financial operations (IOF) until January 17, 1983 if imported by domestic tanning and processing industries for their own use (Central Bank Resolution No. 733). (The exemption was extended on June 18, 1982 to certain other animal hides and skins under the same conditions—see Central Bank Resolution No. 743). May 3. The rate of the tax on financial operations (IOF) was reduced to zero for imports of soybeans (Central Bank Resolution No. 736). (The reduction was extended on May 20, 1982 to imports of unrefined soybean oil—see Central Bank Resolution No. 738.) May 10. Imports of machinery and equipment by companies involved in industrial projects or services using long-term financing from international financial agencies were exempt from import duties; a similar exemption was also granted to companies producing machinery or equipment for use by the aforementioned companies (Decree Law No. 1938). August 3. The Customs Policy Council (CPA) was authorized to grant customs duty exemptions or reduc- tions for goods imported for use in petroleum prospect- ing and production (Decree-Law No. 1953). August 30. The Inter-Ministerial Council for the Grande Carajas Program was authorized to grant exemp- tions or reductions of customs duty and the IPI tax for certain types of imports without "national similars" for the Carajas project (Decree-Law No. 1956). September 24. CACEX temporarily suspended the importation of a wide range of items manufactured nationally or considered superfluous, including indus- trial machinery, components, and replacement parts, as well as raw materials for the chemical, petrochemical, and pharmaceutical industries (CACEX Communication No. 26). October 7. Minimum payment terms for imports with exchange cover were modified as follows: for machinery and equipment worth over US$100,000, from three years to eight years; the terms were also specified as one year for industrial durable consumer goods, and 180 days for other goods. Down payments were limited to 10 percent of import value. The Ministry of Finance was empowered to grant exemptions from the minimum payment terms (Central Bank Resolution No. 767). December 3. All importers were asked to submit their import programs for 1983 to CACEX by January 10, 1983 (CACEX Communication No. 35). BRAZIL Payments for Invisibles April 30. The exchange allowance for travel abroad was doubled to US$2,000 a trip with an interval of 180 days. In addition, an annual limit of US$20,000 was established for travel and representation expenditures abroad of exporting companies, and such purchases above the equivalent of US$2,000 by corporate entities became subject to the tax on financial operations (IOF) at a rate of 25 percent (Central Bank Resolution No. 734). It was also specified that purchases made by exporting companies under Resolution No. 734 should be made at one bank only (Central Bank Circular No. 692). June 16. Foreign currency deposits made after June 18, 1982 were exempt from the requirement that payments of principal, interest, and commission should not vary from the schedule stated in the registration certificate issued at the time of the original deposit (Central Bank Resolution No. 741). July 23. The exchange allowance for foreign travel to destinations in South America was reduced from US$2,000 to US$500 a month, of which only US$100 could be issued in foreign currency notes or traveler's checks. In duly justified cases, the Central Bank could give authorization for more than one purchase within 30 days or for larger amounts (Central Bank Resolution No. 748, valid after July 26, 1982). September 15. In a tightening of the regulation concerning availability of exchange for travel abroad, as well as for certain other current invisible payments, the maximum allowance of US$2,000 for travel abroad, which had been doubled on April 29, 1982, was restricted to persons 18 years or older and to intervals of not less than six months, while the allowance of US$500 for travel to South America was extended to trips to Central America or trips in which the initial stopover was in these regions. Of these amounts, US$100 (or its equivalent in other currencies) would be given in cash or traveler's checks in Brazil and the remainder in the form of payment orders. The basic allowances were set at one half of the amounts for minors between the age of 2 and 18 years, and no allowance was available for children below the age of 2 years. Eligibility for all the allow- ances was defined as once every 180 days (Central Bank Resolution No. 760). The maximum allowance of US$20,000 a year for travel and representation expenses abroad by exporting firms was limited to firms with a minimum annual export value of US$200,000. Sales of foreign exchange of up to US$300 a month were henceforth restricted to Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educational or health purposes. As before, amounts in excess of these limits and for other purposes could be permitted, upon justification, at the discretion of the Central Bank. Initially, sales of foreign exchange for all the above purposes became subject to the tax on financial operations (IOF) at the rate of 25 percent; on September 23, 1982 remittances for scholar- ship and health purposes were exempted (Central Bank Resolution No. 764). 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL December 28. Investment companies were exempt from capital gains tax and cash dividends and bonuses became subject to a flat 15 percent tax, irrespective of the time period for which the invested funds had been kept in Brazil. (Previously, the 15 percent tax rate had been applied to capital gains as well as to cash dividends and bonuses but had been reduced to 12 percent, 10 percent, and 8 percent if the investment had been kept in Brazil for at least six to seven years, seven to eight years, or more than eight years, respectively.) In addition, the graduated supplementary income tax of 40-60 percent on outward remittances of investment earnings exceed- ing 12 percent a year of invested capital was abolished (Decree-Law No. 1,986). Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The export tax on beef cattle hides was reduced from 18 percent of the f .o .b. export value to 14 percent during the period February 1-December 29, 1982 and to 9 percent from December 30, 1982 onward (Central Bank Resolution No. 725). April 2. Exports of vaseline and certain vegetable oil products became eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 056). May 11. Exports of cassava starch and essences for use in soft drinks became eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 074). June 18. The tax on exports of orange and tangerine juice from the 1982/83 harvest was lowered from 10 percent to 1 percent, and the m in imum export prices for the calculation of the tax continued to be maintained at US$1,100 a ton of juice exported (Central Bank Resolu- tion No. 742). July 22. Exports of pectin became eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 145). July 23. Exceptions from the export tax were granted for leather shoes to the United States and on ladies' leather shoes to all destinations (Central Bank Resolution No. 749). With effect from Ju ly 26, 1982, exporters of shoes subject to the tax were required to pay an additional export tax of 8 percent (Central Bank Resolu- tions No. 750 and 751). September 15. Exports of bread and certain other bakery products were made eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 198). September 27. Exports of carbon steel plates to the United States were made subject to an export tax at declining rates of 12.16 percent from September 30, 1982 to December 30, 1982, 10.72 percent from December 31, 1982 to February 15, 1983, 7.49 percent from February 16, 1983 to April 1, 1983, and 4.25 percent thereafter (Central Bank Resolution No. 765). October 14. Exports of machine wire (fio-maquina) to the United States were made subject to an export tax at declining rates of 14.90 percent from October 21, 1982 to December 30, 1982, 12.91 percent from Decem- ber 31, 1982 to February 15, 1983, 8.45 percent from February 16, 1983 to April 1, 1983, and 3.98 percent thereafter (Central Bank Resolution No. 768). October 26. Exports of certain corn products, includ- ing corn flour and unrefined corn oil, were made eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 218). November 9. Exports of scheelite (a tungsten com- pound) were made eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 229). November 30. Exports of prestressed concrete rein- forcing wire to the United States were made subject to an export tax of 13.89 percent (Central Bank Resolution No. 773). November 30. Exports of unrefined nickel were made eligible for tax credits (Portaria No. 249). November 30. The export tax credit of 11 percent, wh ich was to be lowered to 9 percent on December 31, 1982 and eliminated by March 31, 1983, was extended un t il April 30, 1985 (Portaria No. 252). Proceeds from Invisibles August 4. A Committee on Exports of Services was established to promote exports of services, particularly those involving financial operations (Portaria No, 155). Capital June 16. Foreign currency deposits made after June 18, 1982 were exempt from the requirement that payments of principal, interest, and commission could not vary from the schedule specified in the registration certificate issued at the time of the original deposit (Central Bank Resolution No. 741). December 28. Investment companies were exempt from the capital gains tax, and cash dividends and bonuses were made subject to a tax of 15 percent, irrespective of the time period for which the invested funds had been kept in Brazil. (Previously, the 15 percent tax had been applied to capital gains as well as cash dividends and bonuses but had been reduced to 12 percent, 10 percent, and 8 percent if the investment had been kept in Brazil for at least six to up to seven years, seven to up to eight years, or more than eight years, respectively.) In addition, the graduated supplementary income tax of 40-60 percent on remittances of dividends exceeding 12 percent a year of invested capital was abolished (Decree-Law No. 1,986). December 29. A tax credit was introduced for nonresi- dents converting their loans into investment; the credit would amount to 10 percent of converted amounts until June 30, 1983, 5 percent from July 1 to December 31, 1983, and 5 percent throughout 1983 for capital in- creases resulting from new capital inflows. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U .S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 7.7005 and K 7.8545, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, and the Singapore dollar are deter- mined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore markets, respectively; and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Burma has no bilateral payments agreements. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U .S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government may open accounts in U .S. dollars with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of their savings; with exchange control approval, withdraw- als from such accounts can be used for payment of personal imports and petty expenses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source—principally opium and other narcotics, mon- keys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC). The MEIC imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, government agencies and departments import goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most imports are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corpora- tion whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget on endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign exchange allocations can be transferred by a ministry from one enterprise to another; transfers among ministries require cabinet approval. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes, including transfers of profits, interest, and dividends, are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Govern- ment, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Burma. Remittances of insurance payments are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA took up foreign citizenship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U .S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass; copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic require- ments. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months from the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f .o .b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c .i .f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate at least 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Capital There is no foreign investment code as such; in principle, investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Govern- ment. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kyats. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require indi- vidual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repa- triated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at FBu 90.00 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were FBu 89.55 and FBu 90.45, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc based on its fixed rates for the U .S. dollar and the official market rates for the U .S. dollar in Brussels. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with quotations based either on the quoted rates for the Belgian franc and the official market rates in Brussels for the currencies concerned or, for the Kenya shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the zai're, on their official values in terms of SDRs. For the Tanzania shilling the rate quoted is based on the Bank of Tanzania's rate for the U .S. dollar. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank. An exchange fee of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agreements be- tween these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as resi- dents, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zaires. quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bank notes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except trade samples without commercial value and merchandise not intended for sale whose declared con- sumer value c. & f. Bujumbura is FBu 50,000 or less. Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With specified exceptions, authorized banks approve applications for licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 500,000 f .o .b. for transactions involving surface transportation; applications for amounts in ex- cess of FBu 500,000 require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. A license is valid for 12 months starting on the first day of the month following its validation, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. An administrative tax amount- ing to 1 percent of the f .o .b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by the approved Burundi insurer, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 500,000 in value are subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Burundi authorities. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presen- tation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 60 percent of their annual income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately trans- fer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not exceeding 50 percent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income. Transfer of the balance of the profits may be authorized subse- quently: 25 percent after two years and the final 25 percent after five years. Profits awaiting remittance are to be deposited in the Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement (CAMOFI), and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of fu ll transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental proper- ties to nonresident owners is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred three years later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution. Resident owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the nature of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require completion of prior declaration requirements, which must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Payments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at the customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their 122 collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee and other specified products are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Virtually all exports, including coffee in some cases, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides tax and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on April 4, 1979, revised some of the investment procedures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic import- ance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may ob- tain some protection against foreign competition, pri- ority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the Bank of the Republic for the free transfer of profits and dividends and the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate agree- ment, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for 15 years. An investment commis- sion under the Ministry of Planning is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and products abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repa- triation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide working capital in foreign ex- change; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is valid for a one- year period and is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. Gold Dealings in gold coin must be conducted through the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at FBu 500 a gram. After refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1982 Payments for Invisibles January 1. The monopoly on insurance hitherto held by the Societe d'Assurance du Burundi (SocABU) was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The monopoly on exports of hides, formerly held by the Tannerie du Burundi (BURTAN) was abolished. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution C A M E R O ON (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement T he c u r r e n cy of C a m e r o on is the C FA F r a n c ,1 w h i ch is p e g g ed to the F r e n ch f r a n c, the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y, at the f i x ed rate of C F AF 1 = F 0 . 0 2. E x c h a n ge t r an s a c t ions in F r e n ch f rancs b e tw e en the B E AC a nd c o m m e r c i al b a n ks take p l a ce at the rate of C F AF 50 = F 1. B u y i ng a nd s e l l i ng rates f or c e r t a in o ther f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i es are a l so o f f i c i a l ly p o s t e d, w i th quo t a t ions b a s ed on the f i x ed ra te f or the F r e n ch f ranc a nd the rate for the c u r r e n cy c o n c e r n ed in the P a r is e x c h a n ge m a r k e t. A c o m m i s s i on of 0 . 50 p e r c ent is l e v i ed on transfers to c o u n t r i es that are not m em b e rs of the B E A C, e x c e pt transfers in re spect of c e n t r al a nd l o c al g o v e r nm e nt o p e r a t i o n s, p a ym e n ts f or im p o r ts c o v e r ed by a d u ly i s s u ed l i c e n se d o m i c i l ed w i th a b a n k, s c h e d u l ed r e p a y­ men ts on l o a ns p r o p e r ly o b t a i n ed a b r o a d, t r a v el a l l o w­ ances p a id by the g o v e r nm e nt a nd i ts ag en c i es f or o f f i c i al m i s s i o n s, a nd p a ym e n ts of i n s u r a n ce p r em i um s. T h e re are no taxes or s u b s i d i es on pu r ch a s es or sa les of f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e. W i th the e x c e p t i on of tho se r e l a t i ng to g o l d, C a m e­ r o o n 's e x c h a n ge c o n t r ol m e a su r es g e n e r a l ly do not a p p ly to (1) F r a n ce ( a nd i ts O v e r s e as D e p a r tm e n ts a nd T e r­ r i t o r i e s) a nd M o n a c o; a nd (2) a ll o ther c o u n t r i es w h o se b a nk of i s s ue is l i n k ed w i th the F r e n ch T r e a s u ry by an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt ( B e n i n, the C e n t r al A f r i c an R e­ p u b l i c, C h a d, the C o m o r o s, the C o n g o, G a b o n, I v o ry C o a s t, M a l i, N i g e r, S e n e g a l, T o g o, a nd U p p er V o l t a ). H e n c e, a ll p a ym e n ts to these c o u n t r i es m ay be m ade f r e e l y, but a ll f i n a n c i al t rans fe rs in e x c e ss of C F AF 5 0 0 , 0 00 to c o u n t r i es of the F r e n ch F r a nc A r ea mu st be d e c l a r ed to the a u t h o r i t i es f or s t a t i s t i c al p u r­ po s e s. A ll o th er c o u n t r i es are c o n s i d e r ed f o r e i gn c o u n t r i e s. Administration of Control E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol is a dm i n i s t e r ed by the D i r e c t o r a te of E c o n o m ic C o n t r o ls a nd E x t e r n al F i n a n ce in the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. E x c h a n ge t r an s a c t ions r e l a t i ng to a ll c o u n­ t r ies mu st be e f fec ted t h r o u gh a u t h o r i z ed i n t e rm e d i a r i e s, that i s, the P o s t al A d m i n i s t r a t i on a nd a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. Im p o rt l i c e n s es are i s s u ed by the M i n i s t ry of E c o n o my and P l a n n i n g, a nd e x p o rt l i c e n s es are i s s u ed by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. Prescription of Currency S i n ce C a m e r o on is an O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t r y, se t t lemen ts w i th F r a n ce (as d e f i n ed a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t r i es are m ade in C FA f r a n c s, F r e n ch f r a n c s, or the c u r r e n cy of any o ther O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t r y. S e t t l em en ts w i th a ll o ther 1 T he C FA franc c ircu la t ing in C am e r o on is issued by the Banque des Etats de l 'A f r i q ue Centra le ( B E A C) and is legal tender also in the Cen tral A f r i c an R e p u b l i c, C h a d, the C o n g o, and G a b o n. 124 c o u n t r i es are u s u a l ly m a de t h r o u gh c o r r e s p o n d e nt b a n ks in F r a n ce in a ny of the c u r r e n c i es of those c o u n t r i es or in F r e n ch f rancs t h r o u gh F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n c s. A ll se t t lemen ts b e tw e en C a m e r o on a nd S o u th A f r i ca are p r o h i b i t e d. Nonresident Accounts T he r e g u l a t i o ns p e r t a i n i ng to n o n r e s i d e nt a c c o u n ts are b a s ed on those a p p l i ed in F r a n c e. B E AC b a nk no tes m ay be c r e d i t ed to F o r e i gn A c c o u n ts in F r a n cs w h en m a i l ed to the N a t i o n al D i r e c t o r a te of the B E AC in Y a o u n de by the f o r e i gn co r r e spond en ts of a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. Imports and Import Payments Im p o r ts f r om S o u th A f r i ca are p r o h i b i t e d. T he im p o rt f r om a ll sou rces of c e r t a in " c o n t r o l l e d" g o o ds r e q u i r es a s p e c i al a u t h o r i z a t i on {autorisation speciale d'importa­ tion), in a d d i t i on to an im p o rt l i c e n s e. A ll o th er im p o r t s, i r r e s p e c t i ve of o r i g i n, are sub ject to l i c e n s i ng w h en v a l u ed at C F AF 5 0 0 , 0 00 or m o re ( C F AF 1 m i l l i on or m o re in the case of l a rge r e t a il s to r e s ), but l i c e n s es are i s s u ed f r e e l y. A ll im p o rt t r an s a c t ions mu st be d o m i c i l ed w i th an a u t h o r i z ed b a nk w h en t h e ir v a l ue e x c e e ds C F AF 5 0 , 0 0 0. Se t t lemen ts for im p o r ts e f fec ted u n d er an im p o rt l i c e n se bene f it f r om the a u t h o r i z a t i on of u n i n t e r r u p t ed t rans fer g i v en to the a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. Payments for Invisibles P a ym e n ts in ex c e ss of C F AF 5 0 0 , 0 00 f or i n v i s i b l es to F r a n ce (as d e f i n ed a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t r i es r e q u i re p r i or d e c l a r a t i on but are p e rm i t t ed f r e e l y; those to o ther c o u n t r i es are sub ject to the a p p r o v al of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. P a ym e n ts for i n v i s i b l es r e l a t ed to trade are p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly w h en the b a s ic trade t r a n s a c t i on has been a p p r o v ed or do es not r e q u i re a u t h o r i z a t i o n. T r a n s f e rs of i n c o me a c c r u i ng to non r e s id en ts in the f o rm of p r o f i t s, d i v i d e n d s, a nd r o y a l t i es are a l so p e rm i t t ed f r e e l y, sub ject to d e c l a r a t i o n, w h en the b a s ic t r a n s a c t i on has b e en a p p r o v e d. F or tou r i st t r a v e l, re s iden ts t r a v e l i ng to c o u n t r i es o th er th an F r a n ce (as d e f i n ed a b o v e ), M o n a c o, a nd the O p e r a t i o ns A c c o u nt c o u n t r i es m ay o b t a in an e x c h a n ge a l l o c a t i on of an am o u nt e q u i v a l e nt to C F AF 2 0 0 , 0 00 a p e r s on a y e a r; any f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge r em a i n i ng after r e t u rn to C a m e­ r o on mu st be s u r r e n d e r e d. F or bu s in e ss t r a v e l, the c o r r e­ s p o n d i ng a l l o c a t i on is the e q u i v a l e nt of C F AF 1 5 , 0 00 a d a y, sub ject to a m a x i m um of C F AF 4 5 0 , 0 00 a t r i p. In p r a c t i c e, a d d i t i o n al a l l o c a t i o ns m ay be a l l o w e d. T he t rans fer of rent f r om r e al p r o p e r ty o w n ed in C a m e r o on by f o r e i gn n a t i o n a ls is l i m i t e d, in p r i n c i p l e, to 50 pe rcent of the i n c ome d e c l a r ed for t a x a t i on p u r p o s e s, net of t a x. R em i t t a n c es for cu r r ent r e p a ir a nd m a n a g e­ ment of r e al p r o p e r ty a b r o ad are n o r m a l ly l i m i t ed to the e q u i v a l e nt of C F AF 2 0 0 , 0 00 e v e ry t wo or th ree y e a r s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Depending on family status, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments of insurance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be collected within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account country, must be surrendered within a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on capital movements do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the CAMEROON Operations Account countries. All foreign securities and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be depos- ited with an authorized intermediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or non- residents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report after the fact to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only report- ing to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct invest- ment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits that may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and dura- tion of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its impor- tance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Cate- gory B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for five years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Govern- ment, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is normally valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D enables firms making investments of particular signifi- cance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The authorities of Canada do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. The closing interbank market rate for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 was Can$ 1.2288 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the market and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952 Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile products, clothing, and footwear; certain endangered species of fauna and flora; natural gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some agricul- tural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are tightly con- trolled or prohibited; the main products affected are oleomargarine and used automobiles. Imports of nonrub- ber footwear are subject to a global quota. Imports of clothing and certain ' textile products from low-cost sources are subject to bilateral agreements. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. These include crude petroleum, certain petroleum products, and natural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Development Corporation (EDC), including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broad- casting, and uranium sectors, inward direct investment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. This stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canadian business enterprise by persons other than Canadians, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada, will be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed takeovers and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. The domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Canada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all such banks must not exceed 8 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U .S. origin requires a permit when re- exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quan- tities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued, beginning in 1979. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff rates on most-favored-nation basis were reduced, in line with the schedule agreed to by Canada in the context of the Tokyo Round of Multilat- eral Trade Negotiations. Proportionate reductions were also made, where applicable, in tariff rates under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries. January 1. In continuation of the phaseout of the British Preferential Tariff for goods from the United Kingdom and Ireland, changes were made in the tariffs applicable to imports from these countries. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA January 1. Withdrawals of GSP rates for rubber footwear (first announced in 1975) and color television sets (announced in 1977) were extended for the 1982 calendar year. January 1. The annual import quota for cheese was continued for 1982 at 45 million pounds. January 1. The ban on import of pork from Denmark (imposed because of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease) was continued. February 27. A five-year restraint arrangement was signed concerning exports of textiles from Hong Kong. March 6. A four-year restraint arrangement was signed concerning exports of textiles from India. March 18. A five-year restraint arrangement was signed concerning exports of textiles from Czechoslovakia. April 26. Goods of Argentine origin were added to the Import Control List. (This measure was rescinded on July 9, 1982.) June 3. A four-year restraint arrangement was signed concerning exports of textiles from Singapore. July 9. A global quota was introduced as follows on imports of leather footwear for the period July 9, 1982 through November 30, 1984. (The action was taken within the context of Article XIX of the GATT, on the basis of a finding by the Anti-Dumping Tribunal that increased imports of footwear were causing or threaten- ing serious injury to Canadian footwear producers.) A quota of 3.4 million pairs for the period July 9, 1982 to November 30, 1982; for the period December 1, 1982 to December 1983, 11.4 million pairs to be increased by 3 percent for the subsequent 12-month period. (On De- cember 31, 1982 the quota was adjusted to exclude "expensive" shoes (valued at Can$45 or more a pair) and boots (valued at Can$75 or more a pair), without reducing the quota level. The adjustment allowed entry to Canada for a greater volume of low-cost footwear. July 9. Changes were made as follows in the quota announced on November 24, 1981 for nonleather foot- wear: (a) the global quota was adjusted from 35.6 million pairs to 34.1 million pairs to reflect more accurate statistical information; and (b) nonleather spe- cialty footwear items that had been excluded from the quota on December 1, 1981 were added to the Import Control List for surveillance purposes, with import permits available on request. August 11. The Government announced a renewed understanding with Japan regarding the level of exports of passenger cars to Canada, under which the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry forecast that passenger car shipments to Canada over the period July 1, 1982 to December 31, 1982 would not exceed 63,000 units. (This would result in a calendar year export level of 153,000 units.) As part of the understand- ing, the two Governments further agreed to begin formal discussions aimed at stimulating future cooperation between the Canadian and Japanese automotive indus- tries, including parts purchasing and investment. October 1. As part of an intergovernmental ar- rangement between Canada and the United States, beef and veal were added to the Export and Import Control List, for a period to end on December 31, 1982. Exports 128 to Canada of U .S. beef and veal would be limited to 9.7 million kilograms (21.4 million pounds) for 1982. Canadian exports of beef and veal to the United States in 1982 would also be limited to 54.9 million kilograms (121.1 million pounds). October 1. The Government invoked consultation clauses in Canada's bilateral restraint arrangements with Hong Kong, Korea, the People's Republic of China, and the Taiwan Textile Federation. The consultations were invoked because imports of a number of clothing items had increased significantly in 1982. October 15. A surtax was imposed for the period October 15 to December 31, 1982 on yellow onions imported into western Canada; on December 23, 1982 the surtax was extended to March 15, 1983. Exports and Export Proceeds April 5. An embargo was imposed on shipments to Argentina of arms or other goods that could be used for a military purpose. (The embargo was lifted on Decem- ber 7, 1982.) October 1. As part of an intergovernmental ar- rangement between Canada and the United States, beef and veal were added to the Export and Import Control List (see description of this arrangement under changes in measures affecting imports and import payments, above). Capital June 28. The Government announced that, with a view to reducing the time required for reviewing applica- tions, the administration procedures of the Foreign Investment Review Act (FIRA) would be streamlined in various ways as follows: first, the threshold for review under the abbreviated small business procedures was raised from Can$2 million and 100 employees to Can$5 million and 200 employees for new investment or direct acquisitions in Canada. Whenever a foreign controlled Canadian company was acquired in the course of the acquisition of its parent or another foreign controlled company, the small business thresholds were raised from Can$2 million and 100 employees to Can$15 million and 600 employees. Small business investment would not be subject to the fu ll review procedure except in exceptional circumstances, where the investment appeared to raise important policy issues. Second, for applications subject to full review, administrative measures would be in- troduced to simplify the internal decision-making proce- dures and other steps would be taken to provide greater clarity about the interpretation of the Act. In addition, examination of investors' undertakings would be con- fined to the key elements of each investment proposal. December 22. Following up on the announcements made in June 1982, the Government published six interpretation notes covering certain legal provisions and expressions in the Foreign Investment Review Act that had been particularly difficult to interpret. An informa- tion circular was also published, specifying the terms and conditions under which the Act would give formal opinion to investors as to whether or not their proposed investments were subject to review under the provisions of the Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U .S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were C .V. Esc 62.73 and C .V. Esc 63.34, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Ex- change Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola and Sao Tom£ and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 180 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other devel- opment-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authoriza- tion. Transfers for tourism are limited to a maximum of C .V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C .V. Esc 3,000 for children under 15 years). When traveling accompanied by his family, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency the equivalent of C .V. Esc 6,000 plus C .V. Esc 4,000 for each family member under 15, but the total transfer for each family may not exceed the equivalent of C .V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals going on tourist trips abroad are required to buy round- trip tickets in advance or make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a max- imum of C .V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country, and students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to C .V. Esc 5,000 a month. The equivalent of C .V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business trip and C .V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical treatment; these latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean bank notes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also offi- cially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Re- public do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are issued by the BEAC. 'The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 130 Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresi- dent accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities that are also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foodstuffs is not authorized unless local produc- tion of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of certain goods, when not originating in a member country of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EC countries (the original member states) also are free from quantitative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. There has been some accrual of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Govern- ment and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside this area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Re- public and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Re- public4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 4 Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and coun- tries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive ex- emption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferen- tial treatment in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which con- siders the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchas- ing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain com- panies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Re- public, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Economy and Com- merce supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authoriza- tions for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Economy and Commerce, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 'The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, and Gabon. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs main- tained by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EC countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are deter- mined by the Minister of Economy and Commerce on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for im- ports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle impor- ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. There has been some accumu- lation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a daily allo- cation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maxi- mum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce may approve additional amounts. Trav- elers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BE AC bank notes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank ac- counts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area re- quire licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Socie*te Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an 134 Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of payment. Foreign bank notes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Commerce, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Commerce unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Commerce. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, with an interest rate not higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Commerce. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified minimum proportion of their assets. CHAD Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be sub- mitted to the Minister of Economy and Commerce, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically autho- rized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce and by the Direc- torate of Energy, Mines, and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAV IE ), which is an approved private company. Un- worked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Beginning September 26, 1982 for a scheduled period of six months, the official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U .S. dollar, at a rate adjusted on a daily basis in line with the difference between the con- sumer price index of the previous month and the world inflation rate: for operational purposes, this rate has been estimated at 1 percent a month. On December 31, 1982 the official exchange rate was Ch$72.37 per US$1. The Central Bank intervenes in the market to maintain the rate within a 2 percent margin above and below the daily official exchange rate. Foreign exchange dealers, the Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities can establish freely their exchange rates and commissions; the latter are subject to a 20 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso with other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar, and of the U .S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. A preferential exchange rate was established on September 3, 1982 for the servicing of debt in foreign currency contracted before August 6, 1982. The follow- ing have access to the preferred rate: (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies, whose debt is denominated in foreign currencies; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad, whose obligations were regis- tered with the Central Bank. Commercial banks and financial institutions do not have direct access to the preferential rate of exchange unless they make payments abroad on behalf of debtors with characteristics such as (1) and (2). The preferential rate was fixed at Ch$49.623 per US$1 on August 6, 1982, and was readjusted daily on the basis of the increase in the consumer price index of the previous month. On December 31, 1982 the preferential exchange rate was Ch$58.47 per US$1. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out currency exchange policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with the general rules enacted by the Central Bank. 'With effect from March 23, 1983 (March 14, 1983 in certain cases), Chile introduced a system under which the exchange rate of the peso would be adjusted on the basis of the domestic inflation rate only, in contrast to the previous practice of adjusting the rate daily by the difference between the average rate of change of the domestic consumer price index in the proceeding month and an estimate of the world inflation rate. In addition, regulations were tightened in respect of import taxation, invisible payments, and the repatriation of export proceeds. 136 Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with the Dominican Republic may be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free. Since October 28, 1982, all imports are subject to a paper formality known as Informe de Importation, which can be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers may purchase spot exchange upon presen- tation of the relevant shipping documents. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida), that is, on credit terms exceeding 360 days, require prior authoriza- tion of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 percent of value, which is offset against the applicable import du ty. Imports are subject to a uniform 10 percent tariff rate with some exceptions. Among the exceptions are motor vehicles and parts thereof, the tariffs of which are scheduled to decrease gradually to 10 percent by 1986. From November 12, 1982, and for 180 days, temporary tariff increases, averaging 17 percentage points, were applied to 12 products, which had been investigated under the regulation for the application of the GATT Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties (see section 6 of the Code). Among the products in question, which represent about 2 percent of total imports, are footwear, canned f ish, cotton textiles, and cement. Specific duties exist on imports of some dairy products, in particular powdered milk. Payments for Invisibles Central bank authorization is required for specified invisible transactions. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$300 a month for travel to Latin America and Caribbean countries and of US$1,200 a month to other countries. Higher amounts may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presen- tation of adequate justification. Residents may purchase up to US$200 a month for study abroad, medical expenses of a noncommercial character, subscriptions to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution magazines, books, and pension payments, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Insurance activities within the country are reserved to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise immediately the Director of Operations of the Central Bank (the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper). Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Receipts from exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender requirements must be repatriated within 150 days from the date of shipment and surrendered within 10 days from the date of repatriation; for specified goods this period may be extended. A maximum maturity of 270 days is fixed for export credits opened prior to shipment. Shipment of the merchandise must take place not later than 240 days from the concession of the export credit. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concerning the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remittances, and the surplus foreign exchange from travel allocations. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the taking up of lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign correspondents and short-term loans for domestic relending up to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements, depend- ing on the purpose and type of the investment, as follows: (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. There is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing. Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. All foreign borrowing with average maturities of less than 70 months, with the exception of medium-term CHILE loans for financing capital imports, is subject to a 5 percent reserve deposit requirement. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of Ju ly 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract containing undertakings regarding the phasing of the investment program that will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Execu- tive Secretary of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no limitations on profit remittances. Capital may be repatriated after three years. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 percent a year total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (currently 48.5 percent). Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and which did not opt to be subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Foreign investment in the oil sector is subject to authorization by the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP). Gold Chile has issued three types of gold coin, which are not legal tender. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 15. The peso was pegged to a basket -of currencies, yielding a rate of Ch$46 per US$1. The weights of the currencies in the basket were 60 percent for the U .S. dollar, 15 percent each for the Japanese yen and the deutsche mark, and 5 percent each for the French franc and the pound sterling. In addition, a schedule was announced, according to which the peso would depreciate by 0.8 percent a month, during the period June 1982-June 1983. August 5. It was announced that the exchange rate would be determined freely by market forces. In order to avoid excessive exchange rate fluctuations, the Central Bank would intervene in the market through a process of open bids. The foreign exchange sales or purchases of the major public sector enterprises were to be conducted through the Central Bank. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE September 3. A preferential exchange rate was esta- blished for the servicing of debt in foreign currencies contracted after August 6. The preferential rate was fixed at Ch$49.623 per US$1 on August 6, 1982 and would be adjusted on a daily basis in line with the domestic inflation rate. September 26. The peso was repegged to the U .S. dollar; the exchange rate would be adjusted on a daily basis in line with the differential between domestic and world inflation. December 15. It was announced that the difference between the preferential and the official exchange rate would be paid by means of sales of notes with a maturity of between 3 and 5 years. Imports and Import Payments April 23. The maximum period for settlement of import payments was reduced from 90 days to 45 days. May 17. The use of the Informe de Importacion was made optional for all but specified import items. May 29. Duties were raised on imports of powdered milk and other dairy products. July 21. The maximum period requirement for set- tlement of import payments was eliminated, and import- financing credits were made subject to the general norms for capital inflows. October 28. The use of the Informe de Importacion was made mandatory for all imports. November 12. Temporary tariff increases, averaging 17 percentage points, were imposed on 12 products, following investigation under the GATT Code on Sub- sidies and Countervailing Duties. November 12. Duties were raised on imports of powdered milk and other dairy products. Payments for Invisibles September 21. The exchange allowance for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) was reduced from US$10,000 to US$1,000 for each trip to neighboring countries, and to US$3,000 to other countries. The allowance for study abroad, medical expenses of a noncommercial character, subscriptions to magazines, books, and pension payments, was reduced from US$10,000 a month to US$1,000 a month. September 29. Capital requirements for the operation of exchange houses were tightened, and the range of invisible transactions which could be handled by such entities was curtailed. December 3. The exchange allowance was further reduced to US$300 for each trip to Latin America and the Caribbean countries, and to US$1,200 to other countries. The allowance for study abroad and other personal expenses of a noncommercial character was reduced to the equivalent of US$200 a month. Exports and Export Proceeds April 23. The maximum maturity for preshipment export credits was raised to 270 days, and the period within which shipment should take place was raised from 210 days to 240 days. September 29. The maximum amount of export proceeds not subject to the requirement of repatriation within 150 days was reduced from US$5,000 to US$1,000. December 3. The maximum repatriation period for all export proceeds was shortened from 300 days to 150 days. Capital May 5. The m in imum average maturity of 24 months for capital originating from foreign borrowing was abolished, and a reserve deposit requirement of 20 percent was imposed on borrowing with average matur- ity below 24 months. July 21. The reserve deposit requirement introduced on May 5, 1982 was reduced to 5 percent for loans with a maturity of less than 70 months. September 29. The provision permitting purchases of foreign exchange up to US$10,000 a person every 30 days for "extraordinary remittances" was abolished. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its un it is the yuan. The exchange rate of the renminbi is adjusted in accordance with movements in the value of a basket of internationally traded currencies, weighted with reference to their importance in China's external transactions and the trends in their relative values. The yuan-U.S. dollar rate is calculated directly from the value of the basket, while rates for 22 other currencies1 are determined from the cross rates. The exchange rate is published daily by the State Administration of Exchange Control; on December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Y 1.9179 and Y 1.9275, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transactions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 1 percent; for the important currencies, such as the U .S. dollar and the Japanese yen, a smaller margin of 0.5 percent is applied. All spot transactions are performed at this official exchange rate. All national enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to buy foreign exchange from the Bank of China at an internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. This rate is formed by adding to the official rate an "equali- zation price" and applies to all national enterprises and corporations engaged in trade, as well as to receipts and expenditures in foreign exchange for trade-related trans- actions in invisibles such as shipping and insurance. The official rate remains in effect for all other transactions in invisibles and for all settlements with nonresidents that are denominated in renm inb i. An experimental trading system for foreign exchange has been established by the Bank of China in a few areas, such as Beijing, Guangdong, Hefei, Shanghai, and Tianjin. National enterprises holding foreign exchange earned through the system of retention quotas are permitted to sell this foreign exchange to other national enterprises that have a quota for spending foreign exchange. The Bank of China acts as a broker and levies a commission of 0.1 percent on both sides of the transaction. The Bank of China does not operate in this trading system on its own account or provide foreign exchange or take up positions in foreign exchange. Most transactions are in U .S. dollars, but Hong Kong dollars and pounds sterling are also traded. All transactions in this market are spot transactions and are conducted at the internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. 'Au s t r a l i an dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Ghanaian cedis, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Tanzania shillings. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 curren- cies.2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are only permitted in connection w i th an underlying trade transac- tion. When banks sell renminbi forward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a further six months, but for not longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the currencies concerned. Administration of Control The State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC), a government department under the direct control of the leadership of the State Bank of China is responsible for controlling all foreign exchange transac- tions, in accordance with state policy. Where the SAEC does not have a bureau, the local branch of the Bank of China acts as an agent for the SAEC. Other banks and financial institutions (for example, the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, the Standard Chartered Bank, the Overseas Chinese Banking Corporation, and the Bank of East Asia in Shanghai) may handle desig- nated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. The China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions connected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and institutions may hold foreign exchange but may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Foreign exchange transactions are generally made in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. Those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade and external assistance and loans by China are prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Countries; the foreign exchange budgets of other government departments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade trans- actions, receipts from overseas Chinese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordi- nated and balanced by the SAEC, and after it has been reviewed and reconciled with other plans by the State Planning Commission, it is submitted to the State Coun- cil for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for imple- mentation. The Bank of China is responsible for super- vising the implementation of the foreign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan, in principle, covers all transactions, including those with countries with which 2Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA China maintains bilateral payments agreements. The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the State Planning Commission reviews the implementation of the plan and determines whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade prices, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Special exchange control regulations apply to special economic zones and border regions. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions w i th Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are expressed in Swiss francs, and with Cuba in pounds sterling at the official exchange rate and settled through bilateral payments arrangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial trans- actions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for part of such transactions with Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania, and all the transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements3 are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by bilateral contract. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are of two kinds: Type A agreements are designed to ensure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities which cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. Most arrangements are of this type. Type B agreements (those with the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sierra Leone) provide such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also include nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China. Joint ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. With the permission of the Bank of China, foreign banks may hold conver- tible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be pur- 3 China maintains bilateral payments agreements w i th the fo l low ing Fund members: Afghan is tan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Hungary, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Romania, and Sierra Leone. It also maintains agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, and U .S .S .R. 4 Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of foreign countries, Hong Kong, and Macao. Foreign embassies are also included. 140 chased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transaction. The Bank of China may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with Israel, the Republic of Korea, and South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for the conduct of trade rests w i th the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade which issues the licenses required for all import and export transactions. Most foreign trade is conducted by state foreign trade corporations under the direct leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Other entities may conduct foreign trade only if authorized by license to do so by the Ministry. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade supervises and coordinates the foreign trade activities of entities that are not under its direct jurisdiction. Foreign trade corporations have branches in pro- vinces, cities, and autonomous regions and are under the dual leadership of the local authorities and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Localities and ministries other than the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade may also, after registra- tion, participate directly in foreign trade. Local foreign trade corporations have been established in a number of provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions. Ministries have also been permitted to establish foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, except registered state-owned foreign trade corporations, need a license from the local foreign trade bureau before they can trade or hold foreign exchange. Part of the proceeds of some exports may be retained in a foreign exchange deposit or foreign ex- change quota account with the Bank of China. Such foreign exchange may be sold to other authorized enterprises through the experimental trading system established by the Bank of China. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China, unless a specific exception is granted by the SAEC. Before using their holdings of foreign exchange, enterprises other than the foreign trade corporations must seek the approval of the SAEC. The Bank of China provides foreign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Enterprises must sell their foreign ex- change earnings from invisibles to the Bank of China, except for the portion they may retain in accordance with specific regulations. Foreign trade is conducted on the basis of the annual foreign trade plan. This plan is drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade in conjunction with the State Planning Commission. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions; these, in turn, meet with other interested entities and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade and the State Planning Commission at national foreign trade planning confer- ences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods which can be produced domestically, or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available, are not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domes- tically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. The import of goods which have been exported from China require special authorization. The import and export of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency, manu- scripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. In addition, the import of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants is prohibited, as is the export of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare animals and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. The customs regulations in force are the Provisional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. Except for imports into Tibet, China applies a two-column import tariff with a general rate and a minimum rate. The minimum rate is applied to goods from those countries with which China has concluded reciprocal commercial treaties.5 The general rate applies to all other countries. Import duties are generally levied on the c . i . f. value of goods. The rates on dutiable imports under the general tariff fall into 24 scales ranging from 7.5 percent to 250 percent, while those under the minimum tariff fall into 20 scales ranging from 5 percent to 150 percent. Imports into Tibet from abroad are subject to a separate system of customs duties established by the 5These countries are as follows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Benin, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Americas: Argen- tina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Burma, Cyprus, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U .S .S .R ., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Tibetan People's Government. The tariff, however, only applies to goods imported directly into Tibet for use there. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese tariff. In addition to customs duties, the Consolidated Indus- trial and Commercial Tax (a turnover tax that is applied also to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regu- lations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Export duties are levied on exports of 34 different commodities. In the case of compensation trade, after imported materials and equipment have been paid for, net foreign exchange earnings accrue to the State. Of this total, 15 percent may be retained and the rest must be sur- rendered. One half of the retained amount, or 7.5 percent, remains with the enterprise, while the other half is retained by the locality if the enterprise is controlled at that level, or divided equally between the relevant ministry and the locality if the enterprise is under central leadership. In other cases, the percentage of export earnings that can be retained varies with the enterprise. Special economic zones have been set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Foreigners and, in particular, overseas Chinese are permitted to open factories in these zones for manufacturing products for export markets. Imports into such zones intended for processing and re-export are exempt from import duties and in some cases the consolidated commercial and industrial tax. Profits generated in the zones are taxed at 15 percent, as opposed to 30 percent for joint ventures within China. Invisibles Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese citizens, foreign nationals, or stateless persons residing in China must be surrendered to the Bank of China, except for the 10 percent which may be retained when the remitted amount is equivalent to Y 3,000 or more. For residents of China repatriating foreign exchange held abroad or in the Hong Kong and Macao regions before October 1, 1949, or inherited after that date, up to 30 percent of such inward remittances may be retained. Similarly, up to 30 percent of foreign exchange owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before becoming residents may be retained, provided application is made within two months following entry into China. Such retained foreign exchange may be sold to the Bank of China or remitted out of China through the Bank of China, or taken out of China against certification by the Bank of China. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in Hong Kong or Macao, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums, must be repa- 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA triated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain all or part of such earnings according to prevailing regulations. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remittances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,6 may remit 50 percent of salaries and other income earned in China after payment of taxes. All reasonable applica- tions to remit the remaining 50 percent are approved. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the approval of the local branch of the Bank of China and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remittances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may be allocated the necessary foreign exchange on presentation of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence; any surplus must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is normally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but he is not normally permitted to remit the proceeds from any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by nonresi- dents may be converted into either Chinese currency or foreign exchange certificates denominated in yuan. Foreign exchange certificates can be used solely by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents, for purchasing airline tickets and through train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications charges and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form issued by the customs. The import and export of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but export is subject to the provision of documentation showing that it has been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Joint ventures are required to insure themselves with Chinese insurance companies. 6 Including those employed by enterprises w i th overseas and foreign Chinese capital. 142 Capital A policy of permitting foreign borrowing on a planned basis has been instituted. Loans for vital projects or projects which have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. All sections and departments wishing to borrow abroad must prepare a plan showing the kinds of imports for which the loan is intended. Such plans must show the amount of foreign exchange needed and how much of this will be earned and how much borrowed from abroad. All such plans are submitted to the State Planning Commission, which reviews them in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Countries. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Economic Commission. Approval of foreign loans is based on a consideration of the need for foreign capital, the ability of the borrowing unit to repay, and the overall debt-service ratio of China. Most loans are made through the Bank of China or, in the case of some loans to provinces or enterprises that are able to repay the loan themselves, with Bank of China guarantees. External borrowing plans by entities other than the Bank of China must be submitted to the SAEC and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Countries for examination and forwarding to the State Council for approval, before loans from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions can be incurred. Resident organizations may not issue securities for foreign ex- change unless approved by the State Council. All foreign investment projects are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Countries. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. All foreign exchange earned by joint ventures should be kept in a Bank of China account. Transfers of capital require SAEC approval. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the foreign ex- change account of the joint venture. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other resources, are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first year of operation and be allowed a 50 percent reduction for the second and third years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations in farming and forestry or located in eco- nomically underdeveloped outlying areas may be allowed a further 15-30 percent reduction in income tax for the following ten years. A participant in a joint venture which reinvests its share of profit in China for a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested amount. Some joint ventures concluded before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other economic organizations, which have establish- ments in China engaged in independent business opera- tion, or cooperative production, or joint business opera- tion with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from the lowest of 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to the highest of 40 percent when profits exceed Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income shall be levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans given at a normal interest rate by foreign banks to China's state banks is similarly subject to income tax. Foreign banks originat- ing from countries in which income from interest on deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are exempt from this Chinese income tax. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits thereby earned must be sold to the Bank of China, except for a portion which may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese diplo- matic and commercial organizations abroad and under- takings abroad and in Hong Kong and Macao are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The People's Bank of China buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from the customs or a Bank of China export permit. Nonresidents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes during 1982 Administration of Control March 3. The Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Countries, the Import-Export Affairs Administration Commission, and the Foreign Investment Control Commission were merged to form the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Countries. Prescription of Currency March 16. An agreement to place payments between China and the Syrian Arab Republic on a convertible currency basis was signed, to come into e f fec t iat a later date. COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of adjusting the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall balance of payments performance. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Col$70.29 and Col$70.57, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quota- tions based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates which result from (1) a 9 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates granted at four different percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) a discount of about 5 percent on surrender of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of emeralds, pearls, and services, prior to the 120-day redemption period; and (4) the imposition of remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U .S. dollars and have a maturity of three or six months that may be extended up to one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at 9 percent a year. Warrants held until after 12 months cease to bear interest. Warrants held longer than 24 months cannot be Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. 144 converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twenty-fourth month. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). Ex- change for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget but has not exercised that power in recent years. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colom- bia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is respon- sible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies which it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has bilateral payments or recip- rocal credit agreements2 must be made through special 2Colombia maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia; it also has a reciprocal credit arrangement w i th the U .S .S .R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts in accordance with the provisions of the particular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through ac- counts maintained within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classified either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX or as goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to less developed member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. The term reimbursable imports covers imports that involve purchase of official foreign exchange, including imports of machinery and equipment, with financing by interna- tional credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports con- sist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. Imports are subject to minimum payment terms as follows: 9 months for raw materials and consumer goods, 36 months for capital goods imports not effected under a global license, and 60 months for imports through the global license system. All import registrations by public sector agen- cies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Import licenses for certain items are not normally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for nine months, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products, for which the validity period is three months. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended only once for up to three months. Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f .o .b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is COLOMBIA Col$ 1,500. In order to obtain exchange licenses for imports of consumer goods only, advance import pay- ments deposits (depositos previo a la nationalization de mercancias) of 10 percent of the registered amount must be made in Colombian currency with an authorized bank before customs clearance. Importers then receive non- negotiable, interest-free deposit certificates for foreign payments (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 36 months. These may be used to purchase foreign ex- change for partial payment of the import transaction (within any maximum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates .may be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the original exchange rate. The following are exempt from advance import payments deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo Plan); foodstuffs for direct consumption; direct imports for the military and the police; imports from Eastern Europe; imports from countries with which reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (LAIA countries, CACM countries, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and Spain); imports financed with loans from international organiza- tions; books, newspapers, and magazines; and gasoline. There is also an advance exchange license deposit (consignation) which has to be lodged, at the official rate for exchange certificates, prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 percent of the value of the exchange license, including an advance deposit of 10 percent. If the transaction is also subject to the advance import payment deposit of 10 percent, this is counted as part of the deposit for the advance exchange license. Imports financed with special credit lines from the Bank of the Republic or with funds from the national budget are exempt from advance import payments deposits. The Department of Development Credit in the Bank of the Republic can approve payment terms of up to seven years in special cases. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 percent of the c . i . f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are temporary imports, imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 percent of the c . i . f. value, the proceeds of which proceeds accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Government. All imports (except newsprint) are subject to a stamp tax of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA payments, a freight company must, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 80 percent of payment value; in addition, a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the exchange license must be lodged in respect of imports. A maximum term of six months applies for payment of freight and transportation related to imports. The deposit requirement on freight payments for imports can be counted as part of the advance exchange license deposit. Most payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel. Banks may also transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles, including freight payments, banking commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support, and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Foreign exchange purchases for foreign travel are limited to the equivalent of US$5,000 a year for those under 12 years of age, US$10,000 a year an adult, and US$30,000 for "special" travelers, defined as those traveling for reasons that are of particular usefulness in the economic and social development of the country.3 There are also no limits on outward remittances for bona fide cases of student allowances and family maintenance. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 percent of the investment a year. An additional 7 percent may be reinvested. Profits in excess of 20 percent may be capitalized as direct investment, whenever at least 50 percent of the investment is in the form of bonds issued by the Industrial Promotion Institute. These limitations do not hold for multinational enterprises in which at least 80 percent of the capital is held by investors in the countries of the Andean Pact; in such cases, profits can be reinvested and transferred freely. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency on presentation of their passports or credit cards. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 percent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are re- quired to pay a travel tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject 3Under Monetary Board Resolution No. 36, effective April 6, 1983, the limits on foreign exchange for foreign travel were lowered to US$125 a day up to a maximum of US$2,500 a year for those under 12 years of age, US$250 a day up to US$5,000 a year for adults, and US$400 a day up to US$30,000 a year for "special" travelers. In addition, a prior deposit of Col$15 per US$1 must be lodged with the Bank of the Republic, refundable within six months upon submission of evidence of amounts actually spent, together with travel documents. 146 to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Institute de Mercado Agropecuario (IDEMA). No export licenses are required, but prior application for registration is necessary for all exports except samples and Colombian products in noncommer- cial quantities. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any funds) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 5 percent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export (180 days for instant coffee); and (2) for other goods, generally within one year of registration. However, longer terms are permitted for goods sold on a commis- sion basis, for books, magazines, and other printed matter (18 months), capital goods (5 years), and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colornbiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL), must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL and exporters of minerals associated with state enterprises also are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario, or CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings surren- dered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This rate is 4 percent, 5 percent, 9 percent, or 12 percent,4 depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assem- bly operations. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three months after issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is effected by exchanging the foreign currency for ex- change certificates that are negotiable on the stock exchange. When exchange certificates are issued against proceeds from exports of emeralds and pearls, a discount of 5 percent is applied if the certificates are presented to the banking system for redemption within 120 days of issue.5 Certificates issued against export proceeds from 4The provisions of Decree No. 2440, of August 20, 1982, came into effect on January 1, 1983, granting increased CAT rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent, depending on the commodity. 5 The 5 percent discount was abolished with effect from March 9, 1983, under Monetary Board Resolution No. 18/83. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other exports are redeemed by the Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) without that discount. Minimum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: (1) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insurance at US$206.50 a 70-kilogram bag. (2) Export- ers pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 9 percent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund, and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Grow- ers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equivalent of 40 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax); the tax must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, ex- pressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted against exchange certificates which can be sold on the stock exchange. If they are sold to the banking system within 120 days of issue, a discount of 5 percent is applied. For surrenders in respect of gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 percent advance payment deposit on all outflows, which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,6 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under De- cree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports require prior approval by the National Planning Department, and capital for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in 6Suppliers' credits of a once-and-for-all nature also require registra- tion; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. COLOMBIA Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is limited to 20 percent of registered direct investment (beginning with profits earned in 1976), except for profits resulting from investments of outstand- ing importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 percent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years; where the profits were earned (and not remitted) prior to the coming into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the additional remittances must not exceed 3 percent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from advance deposit requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colom- bian majority participation. In this respect, "sub- regional" participations ( i .e ., from member countries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian partici- pations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insur- ance companies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact and to "national" or "mixed" companies. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or estab- lished companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Purchases of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution require the prior ap- proval of the Banking Superintendent. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum maturity of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 2 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. Such loans normally are per- mitted only for specified sectors —namely, mining, textile, and hotel and construction companies, or enter- prises producing capital goods or operating in the field of engineering and supplying public entities. Special regu- lations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign currency bor- rowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or govern- mental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Govern- ment, the following are also required: prior authorization by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Exports of capital by residents are restricted, and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by resident credit institutions, insurance companies, export firms, transportation companies, and other speci- fied entities, upon prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets during the preceding week; mining companies with foreign capital participation are paid 50 percent in foreign currency on presentation of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc.; the remaining 50 percent and all payments to domestic producers are paid at the certificate market exchange rate. The certifi- cates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in pesos at their market value. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 percent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous month; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements May 21. The central bank was authorized to issue bonds exchangeable for exchange certificates, de- nominated in dollars and tradable in the stock exchange. The maturity of the bonds was fixed at 3 or 6 months, which could be extended for up to 12 months. Bonds could be used for settling external transactions, or exchanged at the central bank within 24 months. The interest rate on the bond, payable only for the first 12 months after issuance, was fixed at 12 percent a year. September 30. The exchange tax on coffee proceeds was reduced from 12 percent to 9 percent. 148 November 8. The rate of interest on exchange certifi- cates was reduced from 12 percent to 9 percent a year. Imports and Import Payments January 22. Temporary imports, imports under the Vallejo Plan, and diplomatic consular and similar im- ports were exempted from the ad valorem tax on imports. January 22. Imports of a number of products from Bolivia and Ecuador were exempted from tariffs; similar products originating from Peru and Venezuela were placed under a phased elimination of tariffs to be completed by 1984. January 22. In addition to modifications in the tariff on imports of a number of items, including videotapes, magnetic tapes, and certain types of cameras, the import duty on quality control apparatus was reduced temporar- ily (until July 30, 1983) to 1 percent. January 27. Importation of specified types of contain- ers from Ecuador were liberalized. In addition, imports of electric irons from Venezuela were made subject to the general tariff. February 6. The advanced import deposit rate was reduced from 35 percent to 20 percent. February 10. The rate of the advance exchange license deposit was reduced from 95 percent to 80 percent. February 15. The maximum term for import payments was extended to 180 days. In addition, authorization was granted for imports of books and other printed material to be settled in up to 18 months, and for capital goods in up to 7 years, according to the payment system. March 8. It was announced that videotapes, magnetic tapes, and other products could be imported freely; other products were made subject to license. April 15. The duty on imports of metal chains from Bolivia was reduced. April 19. The tariff rate on imports of capital goods and accessories for use in specified underdeveloped regions of the country was fixed at 1 percent. April 26. Imports of airplanes weighing less than 3 metric tons or more than 30 metric tons and of helicopters were temporarily forbidden. May 4. Importation of vaccines from Venezuela was liberalized. May 5. A special customs treatment was introduced for Colombian professionals and technicians resident abroad upon their returning to Colombia for a minimum period of five years. May 11. A special customs treatment was introduced for merchandise directed to the Bogota Fair. May 17. Duties on imports of a specified range of products from Peru and Venezuela, including magnetic tapes and videotapes, were reduced under a phased program of elimination by 1984. Duties on a number of products remained unchanged. May 21. The import deposit requirement was reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent. May 31. Import duties were reduced on a range of items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 2. Regulations were introduced concerning the mode of settlement and operating conditions in the free zones. June 2. Import duties were reduced to 1 percent for a range of products, including polyester granules. New positions were also created in the tariff. June 4. Importation of brewing machinery and equip- ment was liberalized. July 5. A number of items, including shovels, were brought under import licensing. July 12. Duties on imports of photographic film (monochrome) from Brazil were lowered, and imports of color television tubes from Mexico were subjected to the (preferential) LAIA tariff. July 26. Import duties were raised until June 30, 1983 on a number of industrial goods. July 26. Enterprises in exploration, exploitation, or transformation of mineral products, other than ECOPET- ROL, were required to obtain licenses for their imports every six months. The request for the licenses was required to specify the form of import payment. A list of the merchandise which could thus be imported was also specified. July 30. Import duties were reduced until June 30, 1983 on a number of products. August 2. A preferential treatment was introduced for imports from Chile of certain copper products bearing a duty rate of 12 percent. August 2. A temporary duty of 5 percent on a number of imports was extended until June 30, 1983. August 6. A list of products under 27 tariff categories was subjected to import licensing. September 7. Items under additional 486 tariff cate- gories were subjected to import heading. September 7. The items that could be freely imported from the LAIA countries were specified. October 28. The duty on imports of automobiles was raised from 150 percent to 180 percent. November 8. The minimum maturity term for financ- ing of imports of specified essential goods was lengthened from 6 to 9 months. November 30. Customs duties were raised by 20 percent, with the exception of capital goods, specified agricultural goods, and goods subject to international agreements. Payments for Invisibles February 6. The ceiling of US$60 on the purchase of foreign exchange by foreign tourists who are leaving the country was eliminated. February 10. The rate of advance deposit requirement in respect of exchange licenses was reduced from 95 percent to 80 percent. February 19. A minimum term of 6 months was established for payments in respect of freight and transportation service. May 21. The advance deposit requirement on service payments was reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent. October 13. Limits were established on foreign exchange purchases for tourist travel, amounting to the COLOMBIA equivalent of US$10,000 a year an adult, and US$5,000 a year for those under 12 years of age, and US$30,000 a year for "special" travelers, defined as those traveling for reasons considered to be of particular usefulness to the economic and social development of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds January 28. In a modification of the conditions for postshipment credit to exporters of products other than coffee, oil, and oil derivatives, it was announced that 100 percent of such exports could be financed for up to one year for exports of consumer goods, and for up to five years for exports of capital goods. Export credits could be rediscounted at the central bank and would bear a 15 percent rate of interest. February 2. Criteria were established for defining re- exports; transactions classified as re-exports would not enjoy export incentives. February 2. The maximum term for repatriation of export proceeds was extended to 15 months when exporters extended credits with the same term to the foreign importers; extensions of up to 24 months were also granted for goods sold on a commission basis, of 18 months for books and other printed matter, and of three years for capital goods, with a possibility for extension up to five years and three months under authorization of the INCOMEX. February 6. The maximum term for surrendering receipts from exports of instant coffee was fixed at 180 days. February 19. A special line of credit for exports was established for the financing of market research, adver- tisement campaigns, and participation in trade fairs and shows. March 10. A special line of credit was established for exporters of mechanical products. March 12. The minimum price for coffee exports was fixed at US$217.25 a 70-kilogram bag, while the margin of retencion cafetera was fixed at 39 percent. March 25. It was announced that 90 percent of the premium for insurance against certain kinds of risks, applicable to exports to Central American and Caribbean countries could be paid by PROEXPO. May 3. Eligibility under the export credit insurance facility was extended to exports of services to Central America and the Caribbean area. Commercial risks would be covered for up to 90 percent, and political risks up to 100 percent. May 11. A special line of credit for financing technical assistance expansion was established for exports of products other than coffee, castor oil, oil products, and precious stones. May 21. The minimum export price for coffee was fixed at US$206.50 a 70-kilogram bag. May 24. The margin of retencion cafetera was reduced from 39 percent to 35 percent. June 2. Rules regulating the organization and status of the free zones were established. July 13. A quota of 80,000 tons was fixed for rice exports. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA July 13. Colombia decided formally to become a signatory to the GATT, retroactive to October 3, 1981. July 21. The maximum period for repatriation of proceeds of exports other than coffee was raised to one year from the approval of the export registration, with an extension of up to five years for exports of capital goods and up to 18 months for exports of books and printed matter. August 20. The rates at which tax credit certificates to eligible exporters could be converted were raised to 5 percent, 10 percent, and 15 percent, depending on the commodities. Rates for a number of commodities were changed. September 30. The margin of retencion cafetera was raised from 35 percent to 40 percent. In addition, the tax on coffee export proceeds was reduced from 12 percent to 9 percent. Capital February 10. It was announced that, subject to authorization, companies operating in the mining, tex- tile, and hotel industries, and those producing capital goods or operating in the field of engineering and supplying public entities could contract foreign loans at specified conditions. Such loans could not exceed 80 percent of the total project cost, and the maturity of the loan could not be less than five years. February 24. It was announced that authorization could be granted for mining companies to open foreign exchange current accounts for the purpose of their external operations. March 19. Under the Decision 169/982 of the Com- mission of the Andean Pact on regional multinational enterprises, eligible enterprises were defined, and free repatriation of profits of these enterprises was permitted, provided at least 80 percent of the capital of such enterprises was held by residents of the countries of the area. April 28. The maximum amount of foreign assets which commercial banks could hold was fixed at 10 percent of foreign liabilities; amounts beyond this level were required to be sold to the central bank. July 29. It was announced that foreign loans to Colombian residents could be registered with the central bank, provided that the loans conformed with specified conditions. The central bank would authorize exchange for the servicing of such debt, provided that the interest rate did not exceed the limits fixed by the Monetary Board. December 10. It was announced that the total amount of foreign loans contracted by textile enterprises under the provision introduced on February 10, 1982 could not exceed US$110 million. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc (CF), which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies* are also officially quoted and are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Economy supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole commer- cial bank—and to the Postal Administration. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of Comoros maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all 'Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Kenya shillings, Mauritian rupees, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. countries. The import from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are maximum allocations, such approvals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may obtain up to CF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The maximum that may be allocated in bank notes is CF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, traveler's checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of Comoros upon the request of the authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds from ex- ports to foreign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold im- mediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coin. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries normally are permitted treely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports Qf gold in any form require prior authorization and are not normally permitted. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of those countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office, 0.50 per- cent; these commissions are subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are riot members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minis- ter of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External Financial Relations. All ex- change transactions must be effected through authorized 1 The CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the People's Republic of China are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an author- ized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require prior authorization. There is an indicative annual import program which distinguishes between five zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) EC countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. All imports under this program require licenses. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral payments agreements, and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (OFNACOM). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain import items, including hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from the People's Republic of China. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Bulgaria and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insurance company, Societe" d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Con- golese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zai'rian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under ten) in BE AC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. 154 The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Prod- ucts (Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles) and by the National Marketing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the full or partial liquidation 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo4 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrow- ing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authorization is obtained from the Minister of Finance. The following 4Including those involving the transfer, between nonresidents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance is required. Exempt from the latter require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Col6n. Costa Rica maintains a multiple exchange rate system involving (a) an official exchange rate of <£ 20 per US$1 for a limited number of transactions;1 (b) a banking market rate (amounting to $, 40.50 per US$1, selling, on December 31, 1982) that is adjusted in the light of movements in the free market rate;2 and (c) a free market rate (<£ 45.45 per US$1, selling, as of December 31, 1982), which is operated by the banking system and determined according to the forces of supply and demand.3 The spread between buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is legally limited to tf, 0.50. The greater volume of Costa Rica's exchange transactions is carried out at the interbank exchange rate (# 40 buying and $ 40.50 selling per US$1, on Decem- ber 31, 1982). Purchases and sales of other currencies4 are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars. These quotations may be at the interbank exchange rate or the free exchange rate, depending upon the market to which the transaction generating the currency movement pertains. In the free market, foreign currency was bought and sold on December 31, 1982 at <£ 44.95 and <£ 45.95, respectively, per US$1, Central American currencies were also quoted at corresponding rates. There is a tax on export proceeds—10 percent for traditional exports, 5 percent for nontraditional exports to the Central American Common Market (CACM)5 and Panama, and 1 percent for nontraditional exports to third markets not covered by treaties—which is payable in national currency. The tax is computed on the difference in colones between the converted amount of the foreign !On the selling side, the eligible transactions are imports of medicine and medical equipment by the Ministry of Health, the Costa Rican Social Security Fund, and the Technical Council for Medical and Social Assistance, as well as expenses (approved by the Central Bank of Costa Rica) of students for higher education abroad; on the buying side, 5 percent of export proceeds must be surrendered at this rate. 2 The banking market rate is applicable to all foreign exchange payments of external public debt service, expenditures for foreign service and diplomatic missions abroad, imports of certain essential foodstuffs, basic raw materials, machinery and spare parts that are included in a specified basic basket of commodities; in addition 95 percent of export proceeds and 100 percent of official capital inflows must be surrendered at this rate. 3The free market rate is applicable to all other transactions, including imports that are not part of the basic basket of commodities, travel and tourism, family remittances, allocations received from diplomatic representatives and international organizations, insurance premiums, repatriated Costa Rican capital, and other private capital not registered with the Central Bank. The banking institutions participating in the free market are required to furnish foreign exchange for all genuine payments and transfers for current international transactions. In certain cases, with prior authorization of the Central Bank, they are required to furnish foreign exchange for certain capital transactions as well. 4 Guatemalan quetzales, Honduran lempiras, Nicaraguan c6rdobas, and Salvadoran colones. 5El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 156 currency proceeds from exports at the rate of exchange at which they are actually converted and the amount that would have been recorded had the export proceeds been converted at the official rate of <£ 20 per US$1. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and certain private banks authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Following the exchange measures introduced in December 1980, it was decided that payments to other member countries of the Central American Common Market in respect of trade and trade-related invisibles would continue to be made in Costa Rican colones through the Central American Clearing House, but must be made by means of checks and drafts denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on Costa Rican banks. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial operations, services, and capital may be made in U .S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import payments may be made freely, subject to submission of evidence of prior registration (see below), except for goods originating in CACM countries or Panama. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports valued at over US$500 must be registered with the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier, unless the goods originate in CACM countries or Panama. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition to any applicable customs duty, the following taxes are levied on imports (1) a stamp tax of 3 percent of the customs duty on commodities not covered by the common external tariff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 10 percent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt; (3) a selective consumption ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tax with an average of 13 percent ad valorem on certain imports; and (4) a surcharge of 1 percent of the c . i .f. value, with the exception of imports originating in CACM countries or Panama and made under prevailing agreements. There is also a small consular tax on certain imports. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Costa Rica grants duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Medicine and medical equipment imported by the Ministry of Health, the Costa Rican Social Security Fund, and the Technical Council of Medicine and Social Assistance, and expenses (approved by the Central Bank) of students for higher education abroad, are eligible for foreign exchange financing through the official market; all other imports must be financed through the banking exchange market or the free ex- change market, depending on the commodity. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of divi- dends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Costa Rican nationals traveling abroad by air must pay an exit visa ((£. 84) and an airport tax ($ 360); Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$5 upon renewal of their passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentis- tas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only <£, 6, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all the above payments, except for dependents of diplomatic parents, who pay only the (£ 6 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing with the free market may sell foreign ex- change —without prior authorization of the Central Bank—in the following amounts: (a) for foreign travel, a limit of US$100 a day to a maximum of US$800 a traveler; (b) for family remittances, up to US$500 a month a person to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (c) for unregistered students, a maximum of US$500 per month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance upon presentation of docu- ments. Subject to the approval by the Central Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justified by evidence of a bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior authorization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for the servicing of private foreign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. COSTA RICA Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the banking system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases (5 percent of export proceeds) at the official rate and 95 percent at the banking market rate. Exporters of nontraditional commodities are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) corre- sponding to 12-15 percent of the f .o .b. value. In addition, exporters of nontraditional commodities eligi- ble for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 1-10 percent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Exchange taxes on export proceeds are applied at the rate of 10 percent of the difference between the effective rate at which the foreign currency is to be converted and the official rate in the case of traditional exports,6 5 percent of the same difference for nontradi- tional exports to the CACM countries and Panama, and 1 percent of the differential for nontraditional exports to third markets not covered by treaties. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- ments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Com- merce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, root of ipecacaunha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Office); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 15 days from the date of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the 6Traditional exports were defined to include coffee, bananas, tobacco, certain uncut hides, beef, raw shrimp, logs and sawn wood, unprocessed minerals, specified live animals, and exports of certain categories of enterprises. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and nonresi- dents may be made, subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. The National Budget Authority7 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, the centralized agencies, and enterprises of the public sector. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U .S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and juridical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement August 9. The following changes were made in the exchange and trade system, involving closure of all authorized exchange houses, the delegation of all foreign exchange transactions in the free market to commercial banks, and the establishment of three exchange rates: (a) an official rate of $ 20 = US$1 applicable to imports of medicine by the Ministry of Health, the Costa Rican Social Security Fund, and the Technical Council of Medical and Social Assistance, as well as expenses (approved by the Central Bank) of students for higher education abroad; (b) a banking market rate (<£ 40 = US$1 as of December 31, 1982) that would be adjusted in light of the movement in the free market rate; the banking market rate would be applied to all foreign 7Composed of the Minister of Finance, Minister of Planning, and the President of the Central Bank. exchange payments of external public debt service, expenditures for foreign service and diplomatic missions abroad, imports of certain essential goods including foodstuffs, basic raw materials, machinery and spare parts, and 100 percent of the imported components of exported products; and (c) a free market rate for all other transactions, including imports not eligible for the banking market rate, travel and tourism, family remit- tances, allocations received from diplomatic represen- tatives and international organizations, insurance pre- miums, repatriated Costa Rican capital, and other private capital not registered with the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments August 9. Import items within a basic basket of commodities, including foodstuffs, raw materials, ma- chinery and spare parts, and 100 percent of the import components of exported products, were classified for foreign exchange settlement at the banking market rate. Foreign exchange for all other import commodities not included in the basic basket of commodities were to be obtained at the free market rate. Payments for Invisibles August 9. As part of new regulations issued by the Central Bank concerning payments for invisibles, certain limits were placed on the amounts of foreign exchange that commercial banks could sell (at the free market rate) without prior authorization of the Central Bank as follows: (a) for foreign travel, a limit of US$200 a day, up to a maximum of US$3,000 a traveler; (b) for family remittances, up to US$500 a month a person, to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (c) for unregistered students, a maximum of US$500 a month for living expenses. Subject to approval of the Central Bank, these limits could be exceeded where justified by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. November 30. The amount that could be made available to a person for traveling abroad was reduced from US$200 to US$100 a day; in addition, the maximum under this heading was reduced from US$1,600 to US$800. Exports and Export Proceeds August 9. The proportion of export proceeds to be surrendered at the official rate was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent, with the remaining 95 percent to be surrendered at the banking rate. In addition, exchange taxes of 10 percent for traditional exports and 5 percent for nontraditional exports destined for the Central Amer- ican Common Market were imposed on local currency proceeds from exports in the banking market in excess of those calculated at the rate of (^ 20 = US$1. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the currencies of the main trading partners. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4878 and £C 0.4885, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies.] There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U .S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in respect of trade transactions only. Rates for longer periods are available for exports, on request. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Authority to approve certain applications for the allocation of foreign exchange, within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank, has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign cur- rency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Cyprus, with transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency. External Accounts and foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for transfers to other External Ac- counts or foreign currency accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against Exter- nal Accounts or foreign currency accounts in excess of 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (commer- cial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. the equivalent of £C 100 may be effected only with the approval of the exchange control section of the Central Bank, unless the foreign currency notes are delivered by the authorized dealer to a nonresident at the customs on exportation. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature that may not be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or be credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under (1), (2), and (3), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. The Central Bank is prepared to permit the release of blocked funds to each nonresident holder up to £C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments The goods which require import licenses are specified in the Import (Regulation and Control) Orders issued under the Import Laws by the Minister of Commerce and Industry. The regulation, control, or restriction of such imports is done in order to protect the local industrial or agricultural production. For most goods subject to an import license, such a license is freely granted. Impor- ters should not, however, enter into any commitment without securing the required import license. This license automatically carries the authority for effecting the relative payment. Goods originating from Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. and not appearing in the above-mentioned Import Orders may only be imported direct from these countries and not through a third country. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are subject to the requirements of other laws and regulations, for example, medical, health, veterinary, phytopathological, etc. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to £C 25 in value, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Payments for imports may be made without prior approval from the Exchange Control Section of the Central Bank after arrival of the goods or after receipt of a fu ll set of shipping documents. Advance payments require prior approval from the Exchange Control Sec- tion, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 100. Payments for imports free from licensing requirements effected after 200 days from the date of shipment require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for imports requiring a license must be made within the time limits specified on the license, except with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 3.5 percent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feedstuff, pharmaceu- ticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable after deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, generally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital ou tf low. For study abroad, allowances normally are granted only for study at colleges, universities, and other educational institutions recommended by the Ministry of Education. Exchange allowances depend on the cost of living and tuition in the respective locations. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean countries, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, the Middle East, and Yugoslavia, the max imum yearly allowance for living expenses is £C 1,400; for Canada and the United States, £C 3,100; for the United Kingdom, £C 2,500; and for all other countries, £C 2,300. Additional allowances are granted for payment of tui- tion. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 350 a person annually; for business travel up to £C 100 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance, while for purposes of medical treatment the amount is unlimited but based on actual expenses. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus currency notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £C 100, the latter as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus currency notes plus any amount of foreign currency notes declared on arrival in Cyprus or up to the equivalent of £C 100. In addition, authorized dealers may issue to nonresidents any amount of foreign cur- rency notes against external funds, provided that the delivery will be effected at the customs on exportation or provided that prior approval of the exchange control section has been granted. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat, 160 barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f .o .b. value exceeds £C 100 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds must be surrendered w i thout delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank without delay. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward portfolio investment is not normally permitted, and only specified types of outward direct investment (e .g ., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, introduction of know-how, the num- ber of persons to be employed, and in general the benefits accruing to the national economy. Yearly profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad up to £C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate is limited to £C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. In princi- ple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement December 31. (12 months cumu la t ive). The buying and selling rates for the Cyprus pound were adjusted by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS small amounts at relatively frequent intervals during the year; in terms of the U.S. dollar, the buying and selling rates evolved from £C 0.4323 and £C 0.4329, respec- tively, per US$1 on December 31, 1981 to £C 0.4878 and £C 0.4885, respectively, per US$1 on December 31, 1982. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Under amendment No. 8 to EC6/63/5300, made on December 31, 1981, a regulation came into effect under which the foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was raised from the equivalent of £C 300 to the equivalent of £C 350. August 1. Under amendment No. 4 to Exchange Circular No. 3 (5th issue), made on July 30, 1982, the maintenance allowance for Cypriots studying in the United States and Canada was raised from the equivalent of £C 2,700 to the equivalent of £C 3,100. August 13. The limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that could be taken out of the country by travelers was raised from the equivalent of £C 75 to the equivalent of £C 100. Foreign Currency Accounts August 27. Exchange Control Circular No. EC3 was issued, under which the Central Bank delegated powers to authorized dealers in respect of the opening of foreign currency accounts. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Denmark (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 these rates were as follows:1 Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.726 360.83 127.33 326.45 1,218.70 0.6475 17.903 344.97 121.73 312.08 1,165.09 0.57436 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, the Danish central bank intervenes to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currency being primarily the U.S. dollar. Middle rates for 18 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1982 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DKr 8.3840 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. !On March 21, 1983, new intervention rates came into effect as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.543 371.40 121.11 329.63 1,147.35 0.6159 17.727 355.06 115.78 315.13 1,096.87 0.5463 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kr6nur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 162 Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place within two banking days; transactions that mature in three banking days or more are defined as forward transactions. Spot transactions in all currencies, including Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies may be concluded freely with domestic and foreign banks, provided that the transactions are not of a speculative nature. Forward transactions that involve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; furthermore, special rules apply for the forward sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward dealings against Danish kroner with nonresident customers. Forward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents that involve Danish kroner must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Forward transactions with resident customers, which do not involve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements with respect to contrac- tual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, that is, most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to individual transactions and transfers of DKr 10,000 or less. Transfers of up to Dkr 10,000 may, in any event, be made without delivery of forms. Permission, when required, for foreign direct invest- ments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Industry. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Krone Accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for institutions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresi- dent does not exceed DKr 300,000; any amount in excess of DKr 300,000 must be transferred abroad within three days. Special accounts not subject to a maximum balance may be opened for nonresidents, provided they are credited only with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 100,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts, and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of export-import licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from member countries of the EC are a few agricultural products, alcoholic beverages, and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., or Viet Nam. Payments for imports and the related shipping ex- penses may be made freely within five years (eight and a half years for ships and eight years for aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more) from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commer- cial credits can be repaid at any time if a discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity with normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the DENMARK expected date of performance of the service; the per- mitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior ap- proval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most invisibles may be made freely; only a few cases require approval from the National Bank. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den- mark, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than seven years and the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 10,000. Travelers may take out freely DKr 10,000 in Danish bank notes and coin, and any amount in foreign bank notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may, in addition, export amounts of up to Dkr 50,000 or any such larger amount in Danish kroner and foreign ex- change as they can substantiate as having been imported upon entry into Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EC. With respect to other destinations, except for certain items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used to settle or to offset certain commercial and capital payments; otherwise, foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a maximum period of 30 days. Proceeds from~ Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank notes and coin, foreign bank notes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK dents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice with respect to residents of member countries of the EC is based on EC directives on capital movements, subject to certain exceptions, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repurchase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad). Residents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies (direct investments of loan capital) or in the case of resident persons to a member of the resident's family. Contributions from a parent enter- prise to a branch may not be made as loans or grants but are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. However, residents may buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that these are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned, or that the resident furnishes proof that he has sold foreign securities to a nonresident for a corresponding amount within the last 12 months. Residents may subscribe to or purchase foreign bonds with an original maturity above two years, listed on a stock exchange and issued by specified international organizations of which Denmark is a member. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash, and sale or redemption does not entitle the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other foreign securities. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in connec- tion with most direct investments or with private acquisi- tions of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 500,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital.3 Private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes and expenses related to build- ing and construction work on such property are permitted within a limit of DKr 250,000 for each piece of property. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The private acquisi- tion of real estate in excess of DKr 250,000 is approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC. Authorized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided normally that the loan is granted directly to the foreign purchaser; in those cases where the National Bank's approval is required, 3A license is required, however, for investments in firms which exclusively or largely are engaged in capital investments or financing. 164 this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 100,000 for each person at the time of departure. The remaining liquid assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 2 million in each calendar year. However, investments in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital investments abroad or the financing of nonresidents continue to be subject to license. In addition, a license is required if the investment is undertaken by a foreign firm in which a resident directly or indirectly owns an interest repre- senting a direct investment. Direct investments must be notified to the National Bank if they are made without a special license. Inward direct investments in the form of loans with a maturity of at least five years also are exempt from special licenses within certain limits. A contribution from a parent company to a branch may not be made as a loan or grant; it is treated as direct investment of equity capital. Other direct investments by nonresidents require permission from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accor- dance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark normally requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase Danish Government krone bonds issued since 1975 without permission from the National Bank. Such permission is not normally granted. Bonds denominated only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct investment. Residents may take up loans for up to five years (eight and a half years for ships and eight years for aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations valued at DKr 1 million or more) from nonresidents to finance imports of commodities and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services, provided that the credits are in conformity with normal commercial prac- tice and that the maturity of the loans does not exceed those for corresponding import loans. Enterprises in most industries may take up loans of up to DKr 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution million a borrower in a calendar year, provided that the maturity is at least five years and that the entire proceeds are used only to finance fixed investment, either in the borrower's own business in Denmark or in a business undertaking in Denmark that is controlled by the bor- rower. Most business investments may form the basis of such loans, i.e., investments in business or industrial premises, and the acquisition of plant, machinery, and most transport equipment4 provided that the assets are delivered within 12 months prior to the date the loan is repatriated or are contracted to be delivered within 12 months following that date. Residents may take up loans of up to Dkr 200,000 a borrower in a calendar year from the borrower's family members. Foreign borrowing by municipalities and public utility companies is sub- ject to control by the appropriate department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new emigrants are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in full more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 10,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval from the National Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulation, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. Authorized foreign exchange dealers' commercial net balances in accounts with foreign countries may be negative to the extent of an amount equal to the loans which the authorized dealer has granted to residents in foreign currency in conformity with the exchange control regulations and, for the purpose of financing Denmark's 4 Investment in ships exceeding 100 gross registered tons and aircraft may be financed by such loans from nonresidents only with special approval from the National Bank. DENMARK foreign trade, within a limit of DKr 3 million, but for banks and savings banks, the limit is up to 5 percent of net worth. A positive net commercial foreign position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 million or, for banks and savings banks, 15 percent of the capital and reserves, whichever is higher. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coin in Denmark; they may also import gold coin. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at a rate of 22 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coin. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 22. The intervention limits of the Danish krone within the EMS were redefined as follows, with respect to the deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Belgian franc, French franc, Italian lira, and Irish pound: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Belgian francs 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Irish pounds 346.13 313.14 18.726 135.09 0.66580 1,128.70 330.91 299.36 17.903 129.16 0.59056 1,165.09 June 14. The intervention limits of the Danish krone within the EMS were redefined as follows, with respect to the deutsche mark, French franc, Netherlands guilder, and the Italian lira: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 French francs 100 Italian lire Danish Upper limit Kroner Lower limit 360.83 326.45 127.33 0.6475 344.97 312.08 126.73 0.57436 Capital March 25. The Government announced that it would not, for the time being, restrict sales of index-linked Danish bonds to nonresidents. (These long-term bonds had been issued mainly by Danish mortgage credit institutions since April 1, 1982.) 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK July 1. The following measures were introduced: (a) the limit beyond which individual transactions and remittances would become subject to exchange regula- tions was raised from DKr 7,000 to DKr 10,000; (b) the limit on outward direct investment in the form of equity capital was raised from DKr 200,000 to DKr 500,000 in any one calendar year and business enterprise; (c) the maximum amount of inward direct investment that could be made without license was raised from DKr 1 million to DKr 2 million in any one calendar year and business enterprise; (d) changes were made in the rules concern- ing financial loans for fixed business investment, includ- ing (i) the extension of recognized investment activity in business and industrial premises to comprise purchases of such premises provided that specified conditions were fulfilled; and (ii) the specification of commercial banks, savings banks, cooperative banks, and stock exchange brokers as the only residents ineligible to raise finan- cial loans for fixed business investment under these regulations. December 22. The maximum amount which normally may be held in a krone-denominated account by a nonresident with an authorized bank was increased from DKr 200,000 to DKr 300,000. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 1.5-6.0 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. In addition, there is a fixed commission amounting to DF 300 for transfers in Djibouti francs, DF 500 (or US$3.00) for transfers in foreign currencies, and zero for transfers in French francs. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On September 19, 1980 Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti franc is issued by the Djibouti Treasury, which operates in this respect as a currency board, issuing and redeeming the currency against receipts and payments of U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. 'Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Formally, no customs duty is charged on imports but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes (the general consumption tax). The rate of the general consumption tax is 26 percent for luxury goods and 23 percent for all other goods. In addition a tax of 5 percent is levied on the c . i . f. value of most nonfood imports. Certain commodities, including alcoholic bev- erages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum prod- ucts, khat, and tobacco, are subject to surtaxes at various rates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions on exports, with the exception of the prohibition on exports of live animals. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Under the Investment Code of June 5, 1975, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The 5 percent tax levied on the c . i . f. value of most nonfood imports originating outside the EC countries was extended to cover imports of such items from EC countries. In addition, a surtax of 26 percent of the c . i . f. value was imposed on imports of noncar- bonated mineral waters. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There is a 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry of Finance. They may be debited for payments to residents and for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 168 Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles Under the Exchange Control Ordinance of 1973, payments for travel, medical treatment, education, sub- scription and membership fees, gifts, and the transfer of profits abroad are subject to quantitative limitations. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Dominica may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$15,000 a trip for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel. The amount of local currency that may be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. For business travel, additional allowances of foreign exchange may be made available at a rate not exceeding EC$250 a day up to a maximum of EC$7,500 a trip. There is an ad valorem tax of 10 percent on the purchase of travel tickets. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$350 a day up to a maximum of EC$20,000, as a supplement to the basic travel allow- ance, provided that a medical certificate is presented. Education allowances up to a maximum of EC$15,000 an academic year are permitted, to cover the cost of enrollment, tuition, accommodation, and books. Resi- dents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of ECS 1,000 a donor a year. Applications for additional amounts, or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation, are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unau- thorized transfer of capital is involved. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commmissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, citrus fru i ts, and other selected agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Dominica may bring in freely notes and coin de- nominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval and are subject to payment of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution all tax liabilities. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval which normally is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area may transfer up to EC$20,000 (for a husband, w ife, and children under 18 years) from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. The Ministry of Finance will consider applications for remittance of amounts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by autho- rized dealers to finance their domestic operations re- quires the approval of the Ministry. DOMINICA Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Imports of gold, under license by the Ministry of Finance, are permitted for industrial purposes on ly. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 2. The list of goods subject to import licensing was expanded, including a variety of meats and vegetables, fru i ts, eggs, jams, and fru it juices, spirits, varnishes and paints, soap, garments, and motor vehicles. Payments for Invisibles June 14. An ad valorem tax of 10 percent was levied on the purchase of travel tickets. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U .S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 percent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public (other than those in the parallel foreign exchange market) take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of 0.25 percent buying and 0.5 percent selling; minor exchange transactions with tour- ists and other travelers from abroad are free of any banking commissions or other service charges. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. All payments abroad at the official exchange rate must be made through banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. Payments for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official exchange rate are made through a tolerated parallel foreign exchange market, which is supplied by foreign exchange receipts that are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. Different effective exchange rates also arise from the requirement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for certain imports, and the imposition of a tax on remittances of profits from foreign investments together with a surtax on such remittances. Beginning August 1982 commercial banks are author- ized to operate in the parallel market, which had been previously restricted to exchange houses. The commer- cial banks can buy and sell foreign exchange in this market as long as their average daily position during the week does not exceed 5 percent of their joint paid-in capital and reserves, or the equivalent of US$400,000. The regulating procedures for the buying and selling of foreign exchange by commercial banks are established jointly by the association of commercial banks and the Central Bank. Under the prevailing procedures, com- mercial banks are required prior to the beginning of daily business to inform the Central Bank of the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar at which they stand ready to conduct foreign exchange transactions for the day. The Central Bank, in turn, calculates an unweighted average of the rates supplied to it and communicates to the banks the average rate, which is to be used by the banks as the opening rate for foreign exchange transac- tions the following business day. Individual banks are free to vary their buying and selling rates by up to 2 percentage points either way in the course of the business day. When the announced exchange rates are under severe pressure, there are special provisions for setting 170 new rates for the business day. Exchange houses continue to operate independently of this arrangement. On August 1, 1953 the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is determined by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is ad- ministered by the Central Bank and export controls by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX). Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U .S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under recip- rocal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA).1 Im- port payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The one-year prohibition imposed on imports of motor vehicles in June 1981 was reintroduced in August 1982; imports of certain nonessential goods are also prohibited since August 1982 for a period of one year. Imports may be classified in four categories: (a) fuel imports of the oil refinery and the State Electricity Corporation, for which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange at the official exchange rate in unrestricted amounts; (b) imports for which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange at the official exchange rate only up to specified annual quotas; (c) imports for which the Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange; and (d) imports that are prohibited, either permanently or temporarily. In principle, all import payments can be financed through the parallel foreign exchange market, except those for prohibited imports. All payments for imports at the official ex- change rate require the approval of the Central Bank. Imports of raw materials and consumer goods at the official rate during 1982 were limited to 70 percent of the average annual value in 1979 and 1980 (as compared with the 1981 level of 90 percent of the average value in 1979 and 1980). Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities for reasons of health or security. 'These agreements provide swing limits of varying amounts but settlements must be made in fu ll at the end of every four months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Insurance on imports must be contracted with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Letters of credit for certain import payments are subject to fu ll prepayment by the importer, and com- mercial banks are required to lodge with the Central Bank the peso equivalent of the value of the letters of credit. At the maturity of import letters of credit not subject to prepayment and opened on or after Septem- ber 1, 1980, the commercial banks' liabilities in respect of such transactions are subject to a 100 percent reserve requirement which must be lodged with the Central Bank. The Central Bank may delay payment of foreign exchange to commercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank provides the foreign exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct payment, a bank draft, or a transfer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. Imports are classified according to the Brussels tariff nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties are levied on imports according to three general and numer- ous specific laws. Ad valorem import duties range from 20 percent to 200 percent, but the maximum import duty is considerably higher (about 900 percent) if specific duties are taken into account. An internal consumption tax of 20 percent ad valorem and a 4 percent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges also are applied to all imports except those subject to the minimum duty of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transaction. However, foreign exchange at the official rate is sold only for a limited number of payments for current invisibles. For some of these invisibles, official foreign exchange is sold up to specified limits. Nonresident foreign nationals working in the Dominican Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic development may remit abroad at the official exchange rate up to 40 percent of their incomes, but remittances cannot exceed US$1,000 a month. For students pursuing approved courses abroad, exchange requests for monthly mainte- nance allowances are approved up to US$320 for the United States, up to US$350 for European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a month, irrespective of country, is available for postgraduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in conformity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted only for foreign investments that have been registered in the Central DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Bank and may not exceed 18 percent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, including reinvested profits. Dividends remitted or cred- ited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 percent and a surtax of 3 percent of the amount of the tax. Some delays have occurred in the provision of foreign ex- change to commercial banks by the Central Bank for approved requests for payments for invisibles. Payments for invisibles for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official rate, or in excess of the limits specified, are made through the free exchange market. Such transactions include, in particular, expenses for tourist and business travel abroad, insurance premiums, and remittances for family living expenses. All commissions due to domestic agents or representa- tives of foreign firms arising from imports must be paid in Dominican pesos. Airline tickets also must be paid in local currency and are subject to a tax of 15 percent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200, or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 18 products or subproducts, mainly food- stuffs, are prohibited, and 36 others, mainly intermediate goods, require export licenses. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special committee. Within two working days of receiv- ing payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the invoiced value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt from the exchange surrender require- ments are firms operating in industrial free zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes; in addition, under the Export Incentives Law of November 8, 1979 (Law No. 69) receipts from specified nontraditional exports may be exempted fu l ly or partially from the surrender requirement at the official exchange rate. By the end of 1982, more than 40 products were fully or partially exempt from the surrender requirement; the overall exemption for the year was not deemed significant in relation to total export receipts. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of shipment without authorization by the Central Bank. Law No. 69 also provides for the issuance of tax credit (certificados de abono tributario —CATs) for up to 15 percent of the f .o .b. or c . i . f. value of exports, which can be raised to 25 percent when exports contain a high degree of domestic agricultural inputs. The CATs are fu l ly negotiable and can be used for the payment of any tax or other obligation to the Government. This law also establishes a system of temporary admission for imports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be ex- ported within a year. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Under the exchange certificate system which came into effect in November 1982, exporters of specified traditional products (sugar, molasses, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco) receive freely negotiable exchange certificates (CACs) for a proportion of the foreign exchange surren- dered at the official rate. The certificates enable the bearer to make payments at the official exchange rate for any transactions for which the Central Bank sold foreign exchange during 1982. The eligible proportion of foreign exchange for this purpose is 20 percent for exporters of sugar and 10 percent for exporters of other traditional agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commer- cial banks. The import of Dominican bank notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Inward capital remittances are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Foreign Investment and must be converted into pesos through commercial banks. Law No. 861 of July 22, 1978 consolidated and amplified the regulations governing direct foreign investments issued under Law No. 251 (and accompanying Regulation No. 1679) of May 11, 1964, and created the Directorate of Foreign Investment. Such investments must be regis- tered with the Central Bank for the investor to be able to remit dividends through the official exchange market; remittances are limited to an annual maximum of 18 percent of the registered value and are converted into foreign exchange at the prevailing rate of exchange. Dividends in excess of the annual limit may be rein- vested but are not registered with the Central Bank as increased foreign capital; alternatively, in accordance with Law No. 861, they may be loaned in local currency to enterprises undertaking approved economic activities, provided that the loan maturity is not less than eight years, that the interest rate is not more than 6 percent, and that the yearly amortization does not exceed more than 20 percent of the amount of the loan. Furthermore, dividends from reinvestments of amortization and inter- est payments on the loans mentioned above may not exceed 30 percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the recipient enterprises. Law No. 861 assigns priority to investments in the export sector or in any other sector which would contribute to an improvement in the balance of pay- ments; it also reserves certain sectors (defense and national security, all means of mass communication, internal land and air transportation, and forestry) for domestic enterprises; certain other sectors (agriculture, poultry and livestock raising, fishery, financial inter- mediation, and insurance) are reserved for domestic enterprises or "mixed enterprises" (i.e., where national ownership is between 51 percent and 70 percent). Registration may cover, besides the foreign exchange involved, the value of machinery and equipment, tools, 172 instruments, accessories, and spare parts. Upon the liquidation of a direct foreign investment, capital gains may be remitted up to a limit of 2 percent a year for a cumulative total of 20 percent of the registered amount. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted to the Directorate of Foreign Invest- ment. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government with the prior authorization of the Con- gress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guarantee the provision of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. Foreign contracts by the private bank and nonbank sectors are approved by the Central Bank according to the following scale of priorities: export promotion, import substitution, expansion of local production, and import financing. For the second and third categories, foreign loans are not authorized if the repayment schedule is less than four years. For import financing, the repayment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except for capital goods. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement August 24. The Monetary Board authorized the par- ticipation of commercial banks in the parallel foreign exchange market. Commercial banks were authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that their average daily position during the week should not exceed either 5 percent of their paid-in capital and reserves, or the equivalent of US$400,000. Each foreign exchange transaction by the commercial banks in this market was required to be documented, specifying the amount of the transaction and the exchange rate applied. In addition, commercial banks were authorized to open two types of foreign exchange accounts: (a) a non- interest-bearing account from which funds could be drawn for commercial and service payments approved by the Central Bank; and (b) an interest-bearing account that would yield interest at a rate to be announced periodi- cally by the Central Bank, no more than 1 percentage point below the federal funds rate in the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The interest-bearing accounts were subject to a minimum deposit requirement of US$25,000, while the non- interest-bearing accounts were subject to a 100 percent reserve requirement. (These regulations were reaffirmed and further elaborated on September 2, 1982.) September 30. The Monetary Board decided that the Central Bank should approve requests by nontraditional exporters for foreign exchange refunds under the ex- change incentive granted by the Export Incentives Law (Law No. 69) within three working days of the date of submission. After the request was approved, the Central Bank would have two working days to disburse the refund. When a request for a refund was refused because not all the requirements under Law No. 69 were met, the Central Bank would be required to return the denied request to the exporter within three working days, with explanations. November 11. The Monetary Board announced the creation of an exchange certificate system to encourage traditional agricultural exports. Exchange certificates would be issued to exporters of sugar, molasses, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco entitling exporters to make payments at the official exchange rate for any purposes authorized by the Central Bank during 1982. The certificates would be issued to sugar exporters for an amount equal to 20 percent of their receipts and to exporters of molasses, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco for an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their export proceeds. The certificates would be issued to the exporters after shipment of merchandise and surrender of export proceeds. With the introduction of the exchange certificate system, export- ers of sugar, molasses, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco were DOMINICAN REPUBLIC no longer eligible under the separate system of quotas on sales of foreign exchange sales at the official rate. Imports and Import Payments August 18. By Decree No. 71, the President sus- pended for a period of one year imports of pork, poultry products, cheese, various vegetables, coffee, rice, oil- seeds, various beverages, construction equipment, household electronic products, automobiles, trucks, and jeeps. August 23. By Decree No. 124, the President sus- pended imports of women's clothing for an indefinite period. November 11. The Monetary Board announced that the official foreign exchange quota in 1983 for the importation of raw materials and consumer goods would be equivalent to 45 percent of the average value of these imports during 1979 and 1980. Imports of fuel, medicines, raw materials of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, and infant food were exempted from the quota. November 11. The Monetary Board established foreign exchange quotas for imports of medicines, raw materials of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, and infant food, equal in value to the corresponding quotas for 1982. November 25. The Monetary Board reduced INESPRE'S (Instituto Nacional de Estabilizacion de Pre- cios) foreign exchange quota at the official exchange rate for 1983, from the 1982 level of US$80 million to a level of US$52 million. In addition, the Monetary Board introduced an official foreign exchange quota of US$26 million for imports of wheat in 1983. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets, the official market and the free market. In the official market, the Central Bank of Ecuador maintains rates of S/. 33.00 buying and S/. 33.30 selling, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are officially quoted on the basis of daily buying and selling rates against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. Export proceeds, import payments, certain settlements of invisibles, government and public sector transactions, and some capital transactions of the private sector are negotiated in the official market. With some exceptions (see below), all other transactions are conducted in the free market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates but where the Central Bank intervenes period- ically, mainly for the purpose of avoiding sharp ex- change rate fluctuations. The Central Bank also operates a "special window" through which it sells exchange to the public for specified invisible payments at a rate of S/. 35.30 per US$1. The free market buying and selling rates on December 31, 1982 were S/. 62.38 and S/. 63.06, respectively, per US$1. A few transactions (such as payments for printed material) may be made in either of the two markets. Imports, excluding imports of oil companies, are subject to an exchange tax of S/. 0.25 = US$1. Exchange transactions of oil companies are effected at the rate of S/. 33 per US$1; oil companies are subject to an exchange tax of 1 percent applied to both purchases and sales. Loan capital from international agencies and foreign governments to the Government and public institutions is converted at the rate of S/. 33 per US$1. External loans are subject to a tax that varies between 0.5 percent and 2 percent for maturities of 6 months to 24 months. Exempted from this tax are (1) loans of more 'On March 19, 1983 Ecuador introduced the following modifica- tions in its exchange arrangement: (a) the official exchange rate was changed from S/. 33.00 = US$1 to S/. 42.00 = US$1, a devaluation of 21.4 percent, and it was announced that the sucre would be depreciated by a further S/. 0.04 per US$1 each business day beginning March 23, 1983; (b) a reduction from 100 percent to 70 percent in the obligatory surrender (at the official exchange rate) of the foreign exchange proceeds from exports other than oil and oil derivatives, bananas, coffee beans, cocoa beans, and sugar; public sector foreign exchange and the proceeds from official foreign capital and from private credits of over one year authorized and registered with the Central Bank would also be surrendered at the official rate; (c) foreign exchange sales by the Central Bank at the official exchange rate would be limited to (i) payment of the c. & f. value of import items on a specified List I, (ii) debt service payments by the public sector and approved public sector expenditures, (iii) certain debt service payments by the private sector, and (iv) specified invisible payments, including those for postgraduate studies and for expenses by the news media —all other payments would be effected in the free exchange market. 2Argentine pesos, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Colom- bian pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Paraguayan guaranies, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uruguayan new pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. 174 than 24 months; (2) loans from foreign governments and international agencies; (3) loans to the public sector; and (4) suppliers' credits involving no inflow of foreign exchange. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to shift transactions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank, which also issues import and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports entering the country as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, by the Ministry of Finance. However, all applications for import licenses by industrial firms must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Council. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, Poland, and Romania take place through bilateral accounts. There is a reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Ex- change proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments3 Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (Group A) and semi- essential goods (Group B), and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the following exceptions: books, news- 3 As part of a set of adjustment measures, Ecuador on March 19, 1983 introduced reduced rates of prior import deposits, amounting to zero percent for import items on List I-A, 20 percent for List I-B, and 50 percent for List II. In addition, a "monetary stabilization surcharge" was levied on the c . i . f. value of imports at a rate of 5 percent for List I-A goods, 8 percent for List I-B, and 15 percent for List II. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution papers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music may be imported freely without a license against payment through the free market; if the importer applies for a license, exchange will be made available at the official rate but only when the items are for educational or scientific purposes. These imports are subject to pay- ment of the applicable taxes and charges regardless of their purpose. Medicines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petroleum Corporation may import supplies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business during emergency situations without obtaining a prior import license. A few goods may be imported only from member countries of the LAI A, and some only from Paraguay. With these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes (including import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayment of 80 percent of import duties has been made, that an advance deposit has been paid, that prior ministerial authorization (where applicable) has been obtained, and that a certificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the shipping documents. Foreign exchange for advance import payments must be obtained from the free market. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate (permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. Many imports are subject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit must be maintained for 180 days for List I imports; for imports of List II items, the retention period is 270 days. The deposit is 80 percent of the c . i .f. value for goods on List II, 40 percent for goods on List I-B, and 20 percent for goods on List I-A if the terms of payment are 270 days or less. If the terms of payment are more than 270 days, the deposit is 60 percent of the c .i .f. value for goods on List II, 20 percent for goods in List I-B, and zero for goods on List I-A. There are various exemptions.4 All imports are subject to a tax of 5 percent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 percent of the c . i .f. value, unless they represent gifts or foreign loans. With certain exemptions, goods on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent ad valorem. There are arrears on import payments. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the 4 Among these exemptions are goods on List I-B when imported by the public sector and imports of teaching materials for schools. ECUADOR official rate. These transactions in invisibles are, in principle, limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank (provided the foreign exchange was sold at the Central Bank), payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad, medical expenses, and advertising costs. The special window may be used for private sector refinancing of external loans, up to 25 percent a year of the amount refinanced. The exchange rate in the special window market may also be used for settlement of interest payments on external credits contracted by the domestic financial system authorized by the Central Bank before May 14, 1982 and for interest on long-term external credits authorized by the Central Bank before May 14, 1982, even if the proceeds were sold in the free market. Exchange for private sector interest payments of loans of over one year and of suppliers' credits can be obtained for interest rates not exceeding 15 percent at the Central Bank's special window, provided that the loans have been registered at the Central Bank; exchange for private sector payments of interest in excess of this limit must be purchased in the free market. There is no ceiling for interest payments by the public sector. With respect to loans to petroleum companies, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. There are also limits on student allowances and "other" invisibles eligible for the official rate, but amounts in excess of these limits may be purchased in the free market. Most other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/. 700 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than 360 days after shipment for manufactured goods, 60 days for coffee beans, bananas, and unprocessed seafood products, and 180 days for other products; however, the Central Bank may extend these periods. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions; how- ever, barter transactions require a prior contract. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, cacao, and semifinished products of 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR cacao to help ensure the full surrender of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petroleum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain exports require prior authorization of specified ministries. Cer- tain commodities are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received, with the excep- tion of the export tax on coffee, which is payable within one month of the receipt of the export license. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a sliding-scale tax in relation to international prices; the tax ranges up to 13 percent for washed coffee, 20 percent for raw coffee, and 15 percent for cocoa. A number of export products receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. For agricultural products the subsidy rate is 5 percent of the f.o.b. export value; for manufac- tured products, the rate of subsidy is related, inter alia, to domestic value added. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles must be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, including those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, and Integration or the Foreign Investment Coun- cil. In the case of investments for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortiza- tion. For foreign capital entering in the form of ma- chinery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Addi- tionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification from the appropriate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration in the official market and all pertinent documentation. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days. 176 In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all foreign loans, registra- tion is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of suppliers' credits, no special registration procedure is required. Foreign nationals are prohibited from owning rural properties and from owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in domestic wholesaling and retailing, in construction, and in real estate development is restricted. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration does not authorize direct foreign investment for es- tablishing publicity firms, commercial broadcasting sta- tions, television stations, newspapers, and magazines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the official rate for the withdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits ac- cumulated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments for which the registration procedure for foreign exchange purposes has been completed. For investments registered on a provisional basis, profits may not be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the limit (20 percent a year) specified in the Foreign Investment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private individuals are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to maintain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work, the gold content of which does not represent more than 25 percent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; such imports are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Gold bars are exempt from import duty, while the duty on semi worked gold is 40 percent ad valorem; semi worked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement March 3. A "free market" exchange rate was set by the Central Bank at S/. 30 per US$1 for the surrender of foreign exchange earnings from merchandise exports other than petroleum, and at S/. 30.30 per US$1 for sales of foreign exchange to importers up to 100 percent of the c . i . f. value for goods in List II of the Foreign Exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law and up to 60 percent of the c . i .f. value for List I-B goods. In addition, for those surrendering foreign ex- change at the above-mentioned rate, servicing of ex- ternal debts with an annual interest rate of up to 10 percent and maturities of between one and two years was made eligible for foreign exchange at the central bank free market rate prevailing at the time of surrender of foreign exchange (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1181). May 13. The special exchange rate in the Central Bank (the "central bank free market exchange rate") was set at S/. 35.30 per US$1. The rate was applicable, in part, to private sector refinancing of external loans, and avail- able for up to 25 percent a year of the amount refinanced (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1202). May 13. Authorization was granted for sales of foreign exchange at the official rate for news-related materials (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1204). Imports and Import Payments February 10. The maximum permissible difference between the declared value of landed merchandise imports and the original license value was fixed at 10 percent for purposes of obtaining foreign exchange at the Central Bank. Excesses over the ceiling would be considered as unauthorized imports. The permissible difference was fixed at 5 percent for agricultural goods and at zero percent for imports entering private ware- houses (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1178). March 3. Maximum financing terms were established for imports (other than imports of food subject to domestic price control, certain medical goods, fuels, and public sector imports financed with foreign loans of longer than one year maturity) according to the tabula- tion below, and imports financed with foreign credits of over 270 days were exempted from the prior import deposit requirement: List I Section A Section B List II (In percent of f .o .b. value) Up to 90 days 40 91-180 days 100 181-270 days 100 (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1183) 30 50 100 20 40 March 3. Authorization was granted for purchases of foreign exchange for imports of documentaries, film, and other news services at the rate established for imports of List I goods (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1185). April 29. A maximum interruption period of 30 days was established to determine the permanence abroad of Ecuadorans for purposes of entitlement to import a car free from prior import deposits (Monetary Board Regula- tion No. 1194). May 13. Monetary Board Regulation 1183-82 (which established maximum financing terms for imports—see ECUADOR entry for March 3, above) was abolished (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1204). May 13. Monetary Board Regulation 1170-80, which permitted imports of fruits and liquor only under barter agreements was abolished (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1206). June 23. A special rediscount line was established in the Central Bank to finance the difference between the exchange rate prevailing since May 13, 1982 and the exchange rate applied on May 1, 1981 to importers or for private sector external credits (registered and exchanged at the official rate). The eligible terms were a maturity of up to 540 days; an interest rate of 12 percent to the private sector and of 10 percent for the rediscount operation; and an operational ceiling of up to 50 percent of the paid-in capital and reserves of commercial banks and finance companies (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1211). October 11. Prior import deposit rates were raised as follows: List of Goods Payment Terms I-A I-A I-B I-B II II (Monetary 0-270 days over 270 days 0-270 days over 270 days 0-270 days over 270 days y Board Regulation Deposit Old (Percent, Rate New c . i .f .) 0 0 15 15 50 50 No. 022-8: >) 20 0 40 20 80 60 Deposit Terms (Days) 180 180 180 270 270 November 11. The required minimum credit terms for imports of capital goods were reduced to 180 days for imports of spare parts and tools. Such imports financed with foreign credits maturing in 360 days or longer were exempted from the advance import deposit. In addition, persons and legal entities engaged in agriculture, indus- try, small industry, art, fisheries, and mining were allowed to import tools and spare parts without comply- ing with the minimum credit terms for amounts up to US$3,000 in each case if needed for the importer's direct use (Monetary Board Regulation No. 025-82). November 17. About 100 import items on List I and over 500 items on List II were prohibited. Imports affected during the previous year were estimated at US$600 million, or over 25 percent of total annual imports (Monetary Board Regulation Nos. 026-82 and 027-82). December 21. It was announced that imports of publications and certain other specified imports used in development projects financed with medium-term credits from official international institutions would be exempt from advance import deposits (Monetary Board Regula- tion No. 032-82). December 21. It was announced that imports of capital goods for development projects financed by credits with maturities longer than five years by official international 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — ECUADOR institutions would be exempt from the decree suspending imports of a wide range of capital goods (Monetary Board Regulation No. 031-82). December 27. Exemption from the suspension of imports of numerous capital goods was granted for such imports if they (a) were acquired with credits with maturities longer than five years and having a three-year grace period, from suppliers or private financial sources; and (b) were in the form of capital goods tied to direct investment projects. Payments for Invisibles March 3. Authorization was granted for purchases of foreign exchange at the central bank free market rate for defraying medical treatment abroad (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1182). March 3. Authorization was granted for purchases of foreign exchange at the central bank free market rate to finance graduate education abroad by Ecuadorans (Mon- etary Board Regulation No. 1184). April 13. In a modification of Regulation No. 1184-82 authorization was granted for purchases of foreign exchange at the official rate (rather than at the central bank free market rate), in respect of remittances for Ecuadoran students abroad already registered with the Central Bank (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1189). April 29. Authorization was granted for students abroad on an IECE scholarship to continue to have access to foreign exchange at the official rate (rather than the Central Bank's free market rate as provided for in Regulation No. 1184-82) (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1193). Capital May 3. Regulations were issued concerning use of a special credit line (under the auspices of the Central Bank) to refinance private sector external borrowing for productive activities: (a) the maturity terms should be 12 to 30 months from the refinancing date; (b) the interest rate should be 11A percentage points above the LIB OR for 360 days; and (c) the transaction must be guaranteed by a domestic financial institution, for a maximum commission of 1 percent a quarter (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1198). May 13. The surrender of the foreign exchange arising from private sector foreign loans approved by the Central Bank was made mandatory. Approval would be granted for loans with longer than one-year maturity and for financing productive activities, commerce, and tourism; the surrender would entitle the debtor to obtain foreign exchange from the Central Bank to service the debt, including interest payments of up to 15 percent a year (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1201). June 20. In a modification of Regulation No. 1201- 82, the surrender requirement for the proceeds from private sector foreign borrowing for productive activi- ties, commerce, and tourism, with maturities of one year and longer was maintained, and authorization was granted to register external loans of maturities shorter than one year or for activities other than those herein specified above, but was not granted for access to foreign exchange through the official market to service these debts nor for such debtors to avail themselves of the refinancing schemes operated by the Central Bank (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1210). June 23. A special rediscount line was established in the Central Bank to finance the difference between the exchange rate prevailing since May 13, 1982 and the exchange rate applied on May 1, 1981 to importers or for private sector external credits (registered and exchanged at the official rate). The eligible terms were a maturity of up to 540 days; an interest rate of 12 percent to the private sector and of 10 percent for the rediscount operation; and an operational ceiling of up to 50 percent of the paid-in capital and reserves of commercial banks and finance companies (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1211). October 11. The commitment of the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange at the central bank free market rate was widened to include (a) interest on external credits contracted by the domestic financial system authorized by the Central Bank before May 14, 1982, and (b) interest on long-term external credits authorized by the Central Bank before May 14, 1982 even though the proceeds were sold in the free market (Monetary Board Regulation No. 019-82). Gold October 11. Gold reserves of the Central Bank were revalued from US$42 an ounce to US$300 an ounce. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LE 1 = US$1.42857. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New York.1 However, the established rate only applies to certain exports, Suez Canal dues, and public sector imports financed by the Central Bank. A special exchange rate, equivalent to LE 1 = US$2.55555, applies to transactions under bilateral payments agreements with countries that are not mem- bers of the International Monetary Fund and to liqui- dation accounts related to past bilateral payments agree- ments. A different rate also established by the authorities is applied to exchange transactions by the commercial banks, notably those in respect of workers' remittances, tourist receipts, minor exports, certain private imports, and public sector imports not financed by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for such transactions through the commercial banks were LE 0.83168 and LE 0.84000, per US$1, respectively. In addition, certain transactions, including most private sector imports and certain pay- ments for invisibles, take place at freely negotiated exchange rates. Forward cover is available for foreign trade transactions. Banks do not require prior exchange control approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and is implemented under the supervision of the Under Secretary for Foreign Exchange Affairs. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade supervises imports and exports, but controlled imports are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regulations manual. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the proceeds from exports of raw cotton to convertible currency countries must be received in deutsche mark, Swiss francs, or U .S. dollars (in addition, for exports to France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, in the cur- rencies of those countries). Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized proper- ty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign Currency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds. Canal Dues Ac- counts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are retransferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries and Canal Dues Accounts, there are three types of accounts: Free Accounts, D Accounts, and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currency or with the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with transfers from other Free Accounts; with proceeds from the sale of foreign bank notes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments abroad in a convertible currency; for transfers to other Free Accounts; for purchases of foreign bank notes or other means of payment; for any payments 2 On December 31, 1982 Egypt maintained active bilateral payments agreements with People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sudan, and U .S .S .R. The credit facilities estab- lished between the Central Bank of Egypt and the Central Bank of Jordan have been suspended. The agreements w i th Mongolia and Yemen Arab Republic are inoperative. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regu- lations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts must be credited with any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside of Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations" to the Egyptian authorities and for payments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, residents may hold foreign currency in two other accounts, as described below. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients up to specified percentages of the proceeds from certain exports and nonfactor services and may be credited with the proceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for payments in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activities or for surrender of the foreign currency. Balances in such accounts held by the private sector must be surrendered on June 30 and December 31 of each year; in the case of public sector entities, the surrender deadline is the end of each month. Import Accounts may be opened by authorized banks in the name of Egyptian nationals. These accounts may be credited with foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of LE 1,000 held by arriving Egyptians within three days of their arrival, and by foreign bank notes equivalent to less than LE 1,000 after the expiration of the three-day limit. In addition, they may be credited in the same manner as Free Accounts, by transfers from other import accounts, and by interest on these accounts. They may be debited to finance imports under the "own exchange" import scheme, transferred abroad to cover the account holder's expenditure up to a maximum annual allowance equivalent to US$5,000, used to settle local transactions, transferred abroad for other purposes 180 subject to specified regulations, or for the purpose of defraying banking fees and commissions. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally. Prior approval by the Committee for Import Rationali- zation is required for certain commodities. Other types of commodities may be imported, provided the neces- sary foreign exchange is acquired outside the official and the commercial bank markets. All imports financed by the Central Bank are at the established rate, with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agree- ments with countries that are not members of the IMF, which are financed at a special rate equivalent to the former official rate. A more depreciated rate is applied to imports financed by commercial banks, while a freely determined rate is applied for imports under the "own exchange" arrangement. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" ar- rangement), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sector importers of "own exchange" imports must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. For imports on "own exchange" basis, importers must make advance payment in foreign currency to local banks, amounting to 25 percent of the f .o .b. value for essential com- modities; 40 percent for raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods; 75 percent for cars, bicycles, auto- motive spare parts and other spare parts and machinery; and 100 percent for all other goods. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are respon- sible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, trans- portation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import transactions. Private sector imports through the commercial bank market require approval by the Commercial Agency. Imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. In principle, all commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of foreign exchange in the official market or the commercial bank market is involved. However, there is a list of commodities the importation of which requires approval by the Committee for Import Rationalization of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 percent for certain essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 percent of the c .i .f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the rate established for exchange transactions with the commercial banks. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tourism) in Free Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign ex- change through the medium of Free Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them foreign bank notes acquired through other channels that have not previously been declared up to LE 200 a trip or LE 2,000 a year. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deduction of US$30 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only. Export proceeds other than those from books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Within specified limits, export proceeds may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds from exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemnity accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Within specified limits, receipts from the provision of local hotel, transport, or travel agency services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Many public sector and other EGYPT entities are permitted to retain all or part of their receipts from invisibles in Foreign Exchange Retention Ac- counts, and in many instances are exempt from the periodic surrender requirements applied to these ac- counts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Egyptian nationals returning from abroad may open Import Accounts in foreign exchange in amounts exceed- ing the equivalent of LE 1,000 without having to declare the source of their funds within three days of arrival; thereafter, a limit of LE 1,000 is applied for deposits into such accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Account. Foreign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of US$150 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. Foreign exchange deposited in Import Accounts may also be transferred abroad up to specified limits. With these exceptions, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family, and to export other personal effects and furniture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securi- ties. Foreign and joint-venture banks are required to ensure that 15 percent of their foreign currency deposits can be made available on call, if necessary, by the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accord- ance with court orders. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family—irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income—may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign nationality who leave the country permanently after a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Investment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad gold (including gold coin) and other precious metals for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the monetary authorities, including authorized industrial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in convertible currency. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in gold jewelry within specified limits. There is a free market for gold coin in Cairo. Changes during 1982 Resident Accounts February 25. Ministerial Order No. 28 was issued, permitting authorized banks to open import accounts in foreign currency in the names of Egyptian nationals. Imports and Import Payments February 25. Ministerial Order No. 29 was issued, amending the provisions governing advance import deposits as follows: upon acceptance of the import application by the Committee for Import Rationalization, the import applicant should lodge with the Central Bank of Egypt (through the authorized bank opening the letter of credit) a non-interest-bearing cash deposit in foreign convertible currency to be maintained for not less than one month; the amount of the deposit would range from 25 percent to 100 percent of the value of the import, depending on the type of commodity within the four specified categories. February 30. Ministerial Order No. 30 added 46 different commodities to the list of import items subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. In addition, it was specified that com- modities imported under "own exchange" arrangements but not mentioned in the four official categories, would be subject to the same requirements. July 11. In an enlargement of the functions of the Import Rationalization Committee, the Committee was empowered to check prices on all applications for imports in Category 1 of import items annexed to Ministerial Order No. 29 (Ministerial Order No. 190). Proceeds from Invisibles January 15. Ministerial Order No. 354, issued on December 29, 1981, came into effect, permitting hotels and other tourist establishments to collect from foreigners accommodations and other services bills in foreign currency. April 1. A regulation was introduced, requiring non- Egyptians to surrender US$150 a person, or the equiva- lent in other acceptable foreign currency, at the commer- cial bank rate on arrival in Egypt (Ministerial Order No. 28). April 1. A regulation was issued permitting foreign travelers to reconvert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deduction of US$30 for each night spent in Egypt. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador maintains a dual exchange market system consisting of an official market in which the Salvadoran colon is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at (£ 2.50 = US$1, and a parallel market in which the value of the colon fluctuates freely. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are (£ 2.49 buying and <£ 2.51 selling, per US$1. Official market transactions by commercial banks with the public take place within these limits. Buying and selling rates in the official market for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0.1 percent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts below (f. 100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of 0.1 percent. Buying and selling rates in the parallel market fluctuate according to market forces.1 Only commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank are permitted to purchase or sell foreign exchange in the parallel market; individuals2 may open foreign currency deposit accounts in the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank and use funds in such accounts to deal in the parallel market in respect of certain authorized transactions. On November 6, 1946 El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Mone- tary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve most payments through the parallel market is delegated to the commer- cial banks and the Mortgage Bank. Prior authorization by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all payments through the official market. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since January 30, 1980 exports of major commodities have been under government supervision. Exports of sugar are governed by the Institute Nacional de Azucar (INAZUCAR), and those of coffee are governed by the Institute Nacional de Cafe (!NCAFE). 'The buying and selling rates in the parallel market fluctuated around $ 3.80 per US$1 at the end of December 1982. 2Including exporters of specified nontraditional products, industrial enterprises that export more than 25 percent of their products to destinations outside the Central American Common Market, ind iv idu- als with income from tourism, foreign companies, embassies, and international organizations. Prescription of Currency Payments to other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)3 in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Central American Clearing House. Payments to Mexico are also settled through the Clearing House. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of physical persons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for less than six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Foreign currency deposit accounts may be opened only by exporters of specified nontraditional products, industrial enterprises exporting more than 25 percent of their products to countries outside the CACM, certain individuals with receipts from foreign companies, tour- ism, as well as staff of embassies, consulates, and international organizations. Transfers of funds between foreign currency deposit accounts are prohibited; bal- ances in such accounts can be used for conversion into colones through sales to the banks at the parallel market rate, for payment of imports of goods and services, or for monthly withdrawals of up to US$2,000 to cover expenses for foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, education, medical treatment, personal insurance pre- miums, and other personal needs. The accounts may be opened in U .S. dollars or in any other approved foreign currency; transactions can be effected only in the currency in which an account is opened. Accounts may be in the form of a demand or time deposit and are subject to a reserve requirement of 10 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in investments abroad, on condition that the maturity of investments does not exceed 30 days for demand deposits, and provided that the maturity of investments using time deposits is the same as the maturity of the time deposit. 3Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR The banks are required to pay interest on the time deposits at rates of up to 2 percent below the LIBOR. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain nonessential goods are prohibited unless they originate from Central America. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seed- ing, sugar, and saccharin. Imports valued at US$200 or more from all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports eligible for foreign exchange financing through the official market must be approved by the Exchange Control Department, while approval for imports through the parallel market is delegated to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank. Certain goods that are considered nonessential com- modities (including alcoholic beverages, tobacco, cos- metics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, furniture, do- mestic appliances, photographic equipment, prepared foods, electric shavers, and typewriters), which repre- sent about 25 percent of the total value of imports may be paid for only through the parallel market. Some of these goods rnay be imported through the parallel market only if they originate in the CACM countries or Panama. Only items considered as priority imports may be paid for through the official market.4 Imports from countries outside the CACM that apply discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years (medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises). All payments for imports eligible for the official market must be approved by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. When sup- pliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 percent, calculated on the value of the advance payment, is required from the importer as a guarantee. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment has been made in full to the exporter. In addition, all imports exceeding US$2,000 that are paid for by letters of credit or drafts (cobranzas) are subject to a 10 percent prior deposit.5 The deposit may be made in cash at the Central Bank or any authorized bank. If the importer so desires, a bond 4These include energy supplies, basic food items, medicines, inputs and raw materials for the agricultural and industrial sectors, and spare parts. 5 Imports of raw materials for the agricultural and industrial sectors which are paid for by letters of credit under special lines of credit arranged by the Central Reserve Bank are exempt from this re- quirement. 184 issued or guaranteed by the Government or a guarantee by a bank (fianza) in an amount equal to 10 percent of his average monthly imports may be deposited instead of cash. All payments for imports in the parallel market must be channeled through foreign currency accounts opened with an authorized commercial bank or the Mortgage Bank. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, El Salvador grants duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are free of duty under the Industrial Incentive Law. Many non- essential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 percent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt.- There has been an accumulation of arrears on pay- ments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are prohibited in the official market, except for certain student and medical expenses, official travel, and payments of interest and dividends on registered capital. Students registered with the Central Reserve Bank prior to November 30, 1981 for univer- sity, postgraduate, or technical training abroad may purchase foreign exchange in the official market up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for living expenses and up to a maximum of US$5,000 a year for educa- tional expenses. Students with scholarships financed by international organizations may also purchase foreign exchange in the official market up to the amounts specified in the scholarship. In addition, individuals studying abroad with a guarantee from the Fondo de Garantia para el Credito Educativo (EDUCREDITO) or financed by the Fondo de Desarrollo Economico as of December 1, 1981 may purchase foreign exchange in the official market for the amount of their educational expenses (not to exceed US$300 a month a person for living expenses). Foreign exchange can also be purchased in the official market to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000 a person, subject to a 100 percent prior deposit and substantiation through medical certification, bills, receipts, and other pertinent documents. This deposit requirement is waived when foreign exchange is requested to pay for services already rendered, subject to appropriate verification. The commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank are permitted to sell foreign exchange in the parallel market for payments for invisible transactions of a personal nature ( i .e ., study abroad, foreign travel, medical care, family assistance, and insurance fees) within the follow- ing limits: (a) up to US$2,000 a trip to countries outside Central America for each person over 12 years of age ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (one half of the amount for children under 12 years), with a limit of two trips a year; (b) up to a limit of US$500 a trip to countries in Central America, with an annual limit of US$3,000; and (c) up to US$2,000 a year for personal expenses, such as family maintenance and insurance premiums. Additional amounts for foreign travel and family remittances can be sold to meet bona fide requirements; there is no limit on the amount that can be sold to meet expenses for medical treatment and study abroad. There are arrears on payments for in- visibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foodstuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. Proceeds from traditional exports (coffee, cotton, sugar, shrimp, lob- sters) must be received through a bank in El Salvador, and the foreign exchange must be surrendered in the official market. Proceeds from exports of specified nontraditional products to countries outside Central America must be sold to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank for use in the parallel market or be deposited in special foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks exclusively in the name of the exporters concerned. Exporters of nontraditional prod- ucts are required to use funds in their special foreign currency accounts or to purchase foreign exchange in the parallel market to effect payments for their own imports of goods and services. Industrial enterprises which export more than 25 percent of their products to countries outside Central America must sell their foreign exchange receipts to commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. For at most a year from the date of the authorization, the Central Bank will make foreign exchange available at the official exchange rate to cover the excess of the cost of imported inputs of goods and services over the value of exports to countries outside Central America. If the value of such exports exceeds the cost of imported inputs, the enterprise in question shall be subject to the treatment prescribed in the previous paragraph; that is, its import payments will be settled through the use of foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange purchased from the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department before shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to an export tax. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required, prior to clearance through customs, for all exports in excess of US$200. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized EL SALVADOR commercial bank. Receipts from personal transfers, by representatives of foreign companies, resident individu- als, juridical persons, and from tourism must be sold to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. Personal transfers may be deposited in the special foreign currency deposit accounts only in the name of the beneficiaries. Embassies, consulates, and offices of international organizations in El Salvador and their employees are allowed to sell their foreign receipts to commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market or deposit such receipts in the special foreign currency accounts in their names for purposes of meeting their foreign exchange requirements. Travelers may bring in (£ 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enter- prises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of non- renewable natural resources, and tourist enterprises; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatria- tion of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Foreign invest- ments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered with the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department. Prior approval by the Exchange Control Department is required for outward remittances of interest and amorti- zation on short-term loans from abroad through the official market; foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank; foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain m in imum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM countries. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Gold Gold coins in denominations of <£ 25, <£ 50, <£ 100, and (£ 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and other users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 16. Exports of langostinos were added to the list of nontraditional exports for the purpose of eligibility for exchange settlement within the dual market structure; a proportion of the proceeds, to be determined by the Central Reserve Bank on the basis of the value of imports of petroleum and other essential imports used by exporters of such products was required to be sold in the official market, while the rest could be retained in the exporter's foreign currency account for use in the parallel market. August 9. Commercial banks were authorized to purchase or sell foreign exchange in the parallel market; their transactions in the parallel market were required to be recorded separately from those in the official market and to be reported regularly to the Central Reserve Bank. They could purchase foreign exchange in the parallel market from the following specified sources: (a) nontra- ditional exports; (b) family remittances; (c) commissions and fees from personal services; (d) withdrawals from individuals' foreign currency accounts; and (e) purchases of foreign exchange from other commercial banks. They could sell foreign exchange acquired from the parallel market for the following specified purposes: (a) in- creases in the balances of individuals' authorized foreign currency accounts; (b) sales of foreign exchange to other commercial banks; (c) payments for nonessential im- ports; (d) payments for invisibles of a personal nature up to a limit in each case of US$2,000 a month a person (for specified purposes comprising foreign travel, family remittances, study abroad, medical care, personal insur- ance premiums, and any other payment of a personal nature); (e) payment for other invisibles and unilateral transfers (including nonpersonal insurance, shipping, interest, dividends, and royalties); and (f) amortization payments and specified types of foreign investment. Exports and Export Proceeds November 10. Changes were made in the export system as follows: (a) a requirement was introduced that proceeds from exports of specified nontraditional prod- 186 ucts to countries outside Central America be sold to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank for use in the parallel market or be deposited in special foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks exclu- sively in the name of the exporters concerned; (b) exporters of nontraditional products were required to use their funds in their special foreign currency accounts or to purchase foreign exchange in the parallel market to effect payments for their own imports of goods and services; (c) industrial enterprises exporting more than 25 percent of their products to countries outside Central America were required to sell their foreign exchange receipts to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. For at most a year from the date of the authorization, the Central Bank would provide foreign exchange at the official exchange rate to cover the excess of the cost of imported inputs over the value of exports to countries outside Central America. Whenever the value of such exports exceeded the cost of imported inputs, import payments were required to be settled through the use of foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange purchased from the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. Proceeds from and Payments for Invisibles November 10. The following changes were made in existing regulations: (a) receipts from personal transfers, by representatives of foreign companies, resident indi- viduals, juridical persons, and from tourism were re- quired to be sold to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market; personal transfers could be deposited in the special foreign currency deposit accounts only in the name of the beneficiaries; (b) embassies, consulates, and offices of international organizations in El Salvador and their employees were allowed to sell foreign exchange receipts to the commer- cial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market or to deposit such receipts in the special foreign currency deposit accounts which could be opened in their names for purposes of meeting their foreign exchange require- ments; (c) the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank were permitted to sell foreign exchange in the parallel market for specified payments (in addition to specified imports) as follows: up to US$2,000 a trip to countries outside Central America for each person over 12 years of age (one half of the amount for children under 12 years), with a limit of two trips a year; up to a limit of US$500 a trip to countries in Central America, with an annual limit of US$3,000; and up to US$2,000 a year for personal expenses, such as family maintenance and insurance premiums. Additional amounts for foreign travel and family remittances could be sold to meet bona fide requirements and no limit would be applied for medical treatment and study abroad. November 23. The Central Bank was empowered, in justified cases, to authorize sales of foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for invisible payments over and above the generally specified limits. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts November 10. Eligibility for special foreign currency deposit accounts was extended to exporters of specified nontraditional products, industrial enterprises exporting more than 25 percent of their products to countries outside the CACM, and certain individuals with receipts from foreign companies and tourism, as well as to staff of embassies, consulates, and international organiza- tions. Transfers of funds between foreign deposit cur- rency accounts were prohibited; balances in such ac- counts could be used for conversion into colones through sales to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank at the exchange rate prevailing in the parallel market; for payment of imports of goods and services; or for monthly withdrawals of up to US$2,000 to cover EL SALVADOR expenses for foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, education, medical treatment, personal insurance pre- miums, and other personal needs. The accounts could be opened in U.S. dollars or in any other foreign currency approved in advance by the Central Reserve Bank; transactions through the accounts could be effected only in the currency in which the account was opened. The accounts could be opened in the form of demand or time deposits and would be subject to a reserve requirement of 10 percent. The commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank could invest the funds in special foreign currency accounts, provided the maturity of investments using demand deposit funds did not exceed 30 days and the maturity of investments using time deposit funds was the same as the maturity of the time deposits. The commer- cial banks and the Mortgage Bank were required to pay interest on time deposits at rates of up to 2 percent below the LIBOR. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Guinean Ekwele, which is issued by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank), and is pegged to the Spanish peseta at a rate of EK 1 = Pta 0.5. The ekwele replaced the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency until July 12, 1977, when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Thereafter, Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations, with the exception of some small transactions that took place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekwele and a currency basket. From April 9, 1979 to August 5, 1979 the ekwele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of Bipk. 90 = SDR 1. From August 6, 1979 to June 20, 1980 the ekwele was pegged at par to the Spanish peseta, i.e., EK 1 = Pta 1. On June 21, 1980 the ekwele was depreciated to a rate of EK 1 = Pta 0.5. There are no forward exchange facilities. There is a 2 percent levy on sales of foreign exchange, and exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 percent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and exchange transactions must be carried out through that Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Technical Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. The Tech- nical Cabinet is in charge of approving a monthly import license budget and overseeing its implementation. Im- port licenses approved by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce are forwarded to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and the Bank, in turn, passes them on to the importer and to the local bank at which the importer is to open the necessary letters of credit. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program and a monthly license budget approved by the Technical Cabinet. The importer is allowed 30 days to open the necessary letters of credit at a local bank, after which the license may be canceled by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Imports must be made within three months from the date of the opening of the letters of credit. The Bank of Equatorial Guinea deter- mines whether an import should be charged against the Spanish credit lines, and forwards, if necessary, the licenses directly to FOCOEX (a Spanish institute for the promotion of foreign trade) for further processing. In 188 principle, foreign exchange is automatically made avail- able upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; most import payments are effected under irrevocable letters of credit. All imports are subject to a prior payment covering the full amount of the applicable import du ty. Final assessment of the import tax is made at the time of registration of the import payment upon declaration of the arrival of the goods. Existing import regulations apply to all imports by private firms as well as by state enterprises and the Government. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Residents1 are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Bipk. 25,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad; only one trip a year is allowed for this purpose. The standard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Bipk. 50,000 a trip, and only two trips a year are allowed. For study abroad and travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is, in principle, granted to cover reasonable costs. Residents may, in principle, send family remittances up to 30 percent of their taxable earnings and wages. In principle, enterprises classified as "of national interest" (see section on Capital, below) may transfer abroad freely up to 25 percent a year of the net investment income generated by their exporting activi- ties. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 percent. The transfer abroad of net investment income by enterprises classified as "of preferential interest" is subject to a 20 percent tax. Any other enterprise with foreign capital participation may transfer net investment income, but such transfers are subject to a tax of 35 percent on the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 percent of such net investment income being rein- vested in Equatorial Guinea, the incidence of tax is reduced to one third its normal level. Interests on foreign loans utilized for direct investment may be remitted semiannually, subject to a tax of 8 percent. Branches and subsidiaries of foreign companies established in Equato- rial Guinea may transfer to their parent companies abroad, on account of general expenses, an amount not exceeding 10 percent of the net annual profits of the branch or subsidiary. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in principle, permitted freely, subject to prior review by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea and to a tax of 25 percent of the amount remitted. Travelers may not take out more than Bipk. 1,000 a person in domestic bank notes. Residents may only take out foreign bank notes and coin acquired from the Bank 'Res iden ts are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of Equatorial Guinea. Nonresidents may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount that they declared at the time of entry. Any excess, however, may be authorized if appropriate documentation is presented that the excess was obtained from a resident in a lawful manner. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require an export license. Licenses are normally valid for three months. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea within 45 days of their receipt. Although exports can be freely effected by any licensed exporter, the Chambers of Commerce, Agriculture, and Forestry of Bioko and Rio Mun i, which operate as private, non- profit, cooperative associations, have jurisdiction over the marketing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea within 15 days. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and coin, but the import of domestic currency by travelers is limited to Bipk. 1,000 a person. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. In addition, all exports and imports of capital by the State must be subject to a prior evaluation by the Technical Cabinet. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. The approval of a foreign loan contract automatically gives the right to the bor- rower to make payments abroad for interests, commis- sions, and amortization specified in the approved contract. Without the explicit approval of the Bank of Equato- rial Guinea, no Equatorial Guinean companies or per- sons residing in Equatorial Guinea may hold accounts in foreign currency either in local or in foreign banks. Foreign residents in Equatorial Guinea are subject to the EQUATORIAL GUINEA same regulation only with regard to the foreign exchange acquired as a result of their activities in Equatorial Guinea; they may hold foreign currency accounts in local or in foreign banks with regard to foreign exchange acquired as a result of activities carried out abroad. These provisions apply also with regard to the proceeds from exports and from invisibles. Under the Foreign Investment Law of November 17, 1979 three categories of foreign investment are recog- nized: (1) investments "of national interest" (mainly in industrial or forestry enterprises engaged in the export trade); (2) investments "of preferential interest" (mainly in enterprises engaged in import substitution); and (3) nonqualified investments. Investments by nationals of or entities domiciled in South Africa are prohibited. All foreign investments require the approval of the Presidency. If authorization is given by the Presidency, the Government or citizens of Equatorial Guinea may own stocks of foreign enterprises established in Equato- rial Guinea not exceeding 25 percent of the capital. The foreign share in Equatorial Guinean enterprises might exceed 50 percent of the capital. Foreign loans and capital utilized for financing direct investment may be repatriated annually up to the amortization of fixed assets, free of taxes. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is, in principle, permitted as follows: 50 percent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal monthly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Except for jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 37, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U .S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U .S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Author- ized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 percent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require per- mits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U .S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control ap- proval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Bal- ances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the 190 diplomatic community must use transferable or nontrans- ferable birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for ex- change licenses is conditional upon the provision of satisfactory information on costs and payment terms and the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for a specified range of import of goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic prod- ucts. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Goods that were pre- viously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and intermediate materials, Pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment, in which case prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum ranging between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate em- ployees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pursuing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange for medical treatment and travel abroad. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Exports of horsebeans are suspended. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c . i . f. basis, exporters must obtain fu ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travel- ers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumula- tion of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. ETHIOPIA All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. Foreign capital may participate with the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale construction, tourism, and the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of docu- ments regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign businessmen having nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without National Bank permission. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. New ly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments March 8. The list of prohibited imports was expanded to cover about 15 additional categories of import items, including advertising materials, alcoholic beverages, instant coffee, photographic equipment, sports bags and sports clothing, and tourist vehicles. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1982 buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were F$0.9451 and F$0.9496, respectively, per US$1. The Central Monetary Authority of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 4, 1972 Fiji formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Authority, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Monetary Authority delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import pay- ments. Except with the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign curren- cies they receive.l The Ministry of Economic Devel- opment is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Payments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Authority. These accounts may be credited freely with interest 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. 192 payable on the account, with payments from other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a tempo- rary visit. External Accounts also may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or a specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, although imports of a wide range of goods, including tea, mild steel bars, certain foodstuffs, alcoholic bever- ages, kerosene stoves, seed potatoes, poly vinyl chloride pipes, PVC-insulated electric wires, polypropylene ropes, louvre window frames, shirts, wood screws, and incense sticks and chemicals used as raw materials in their manufacture are subject to individual import licens- ing; licenses for some of these items are issued restric- tively. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few com- modities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers who may allow payments for goods which have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance payments for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Authority. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Authority, a foreign currency travel allowance for private or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For an extended visit, a traveler may apply before his departure to the Central Monetary Authority for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made from abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances ap- proved by a bank or the Central Monetary Authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespec- tive of any export licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. All foreign curren- cies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Resident travelers are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Foreign investment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by residents to finance direct investments require the specific permis- sion of the Central Monetary Authority and are permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reason- ably short period. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Central Monetary Authority. The banks must also have the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before granting any loans in excess of F$ 10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$l0,000 to individual nonresi- dent customers who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Residents require permission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency within Fiji or outside. FIJI The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresi- dent. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$500 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. With the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bullion. The export of gold coin, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, re- quires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coin, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 percent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 percent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export du ty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Commemorative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The weights in the basket of currencies used for determining the exchange value of the Fiji dollar were revised to reflect trade, not only in goods but also in services. Administration of Control July 29. The responsibility for issuing import licenses was transferred to the newly created Ministry of Eco- nomic Development. Imports and Import Payments April 2. Vegetable oils and fats (including margarine) were added to the list of goods requiring specific import licenses. May 25. Noodles, canned tomatoes and pineapples, and chili sauce and paste were added to the goods requiring specific import licenses. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These are defined as the currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years; if a trading partner's currency is not regularly quoted by the Bank of Finland, the rate used for that currency is the one in which trade with that country is commonly denominated. The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Bank of Finland within a margin established by the Cabinet; since October 1982 the range has been 121.9-127.5 (1974 = 100). The actual level of the index has been 125.0 since November 1982. The Bank of Finland calculates the currency index on a daily basis, but only monthly averages of the index numbers are published. Daily (noon) buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, are quoted by the Bank of Finland. On December 31, 1982 the rates were Fmk 5.283 and Fmk 5.299 per US$1, respectively. The rates for the U .S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U .S .S .R. for the U .S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U .S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate differences in various currencies. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the clearing ruble, at which authorized banks may cover their contracts with residents in regard to transactions permitted by exchange control regulations. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a un it subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a Board composed of government officials, including a represen- tative of the Bank of Finland. 194 Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries1 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U . S . S .R ., and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases). Set- tlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish markkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency received directly from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, with amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, with amounts of convertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateTal^ayjn^nls^jTan^ejD^nts^ and are designated according to the holder's country of residence. They may be held in Finnish markkaa or the appropriate bilateral payments agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from Convertible Accounts and from Restricted Accounts related to the same country. The accounts may also be credited with Finnish currency received from a bank in the country indicated on the account, with amounts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the account, with currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident ac- counts. They are held in markkaa and are intended primarily for payments of a capital nature. The assign- ment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be ' At the end of 1982 Finland maintained bilateral payments agree- ments w i th Bulgaria, People's Republic of Ch ina, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hungary, and the U .S .S .R. The agreement w i th the People's Republic of China was terminated on January 1, 1983. (Transactions w i th Czechoslovakia and Poland have been settled in freely convertible U .S. dollars since 1970 under agreements reached separately for each year .) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution effected (with some minor exceptions) only with the permission of the Bank of Finland. A monetary institu- tion may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan based on a contract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value to be utilized in Finland, and with interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Bank of Finland generally grants permission for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Capital Ac- counts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those countries. How- ever, certain goods2 may be imported from the multilat- eral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. The only com- modities still subject to restrictions for the multilat- eral area are certain agricultural commodities and fuels and petroleum products. Import licenses are not required for most commodities originating in and purchased from the U .S .S .R ., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Po- land). All imports of commodities originating in coun- tries or areas not classified in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area3 require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already 2Agricultural commodities, fish, fuels and other petroleum prod- ucts, and unwrought gold and silver. 3Including Taiwant and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. FINLAND in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within 12 months after the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless specially authorized by the Bank of Finland; if the payment is made to the seller through an import financing credit, the credit period may not exceed 3 months. The Bank of Finland applies quotas within which the banks can negotiate credits from foreign banks to finance advances to importers. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, with a few exceptions relating to insurance, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other conditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be sub- mitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may provide foreign ex- change equivalent to Fmk 2,000 a calendar month for each remitter. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 5,000 a trip. Once abroad a traveler may withdraw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 5,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and settle the transaction after his return. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 5,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 5,000, but in neither case may notes of a denomination higher than Fmk 100 be exported. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to countries that are not in the convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or to an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered but must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unutilized foreign bank notes and traveler's checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the repatriation requirement up to Fmk 5,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted, with the exception of imports of notes with a nominal value above Fmk 100, which are prohibited. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who have resided outside Finland during the last calendar year and continue to do so are allowed to transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is per- mitted to sell the securities on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange with funds from Capital Accounts is also permitted automatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in securities, and the export of securities that involve nonresident interests, require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. Inward direct investments that involve participation of more than 20 percent in the share capital of an enterprise requires the approval of the Council of State. Such approval is usually granted, with the exception of investments in the forest and mining industries and in certain traditionally regulated activities. The transfer of direct investment capital needs authorization by the Bank of Finland. Such authorization is usually granted by the Bank, if the underlying investment has been approved by the Council of State. Repatriation of direct investment is subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland, which is freely given. Outward transfers of capital, including transfers of direct investment by residents, require individual approval by the Bank of Finland. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Authorized banks are given permission to purchase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Purchases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a 196 limit of Fmk 250,0004 a person, subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland, which is granted liberally. Finnish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 250,000 a person or, in the case of emigrating families, Fmk 150,000 a person in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an automatic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 10,000 a calendar year for each donor for gifts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the form of short-term or long-term financial credits, including bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and timing. Lending to nonresidents is generally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is in some cases subject to deposit requirements by the Bank of Finland, which also sets the terms for such loans. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, that is, an export control declaration approved by the Export and Import Permits Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement October 6. The value of the Bank of Finland's currency index was raised from 113.1 to 118.0, thereby permitting the markka to depreciate by 4.2 percent in effective terms. October 10. The upper and lower limits on the Bank of Finland's currency index were raised from 112.0 and 119.0, respectively, to 121.9 and 127.5, respectively. In addition, the currency index for the markka was raised from 118.0 to 125.0, representing a devaluation of 5.7 percent in effective terms. Prescription of Currency June 11. An agreement was reached to terminate with effect from January 1, 1983 the bilateral payments agreement between Finland and the People's Republic of China. Capital February 26. The foreign exchange allowance for emigration was raised from Fmk 150,000 to Fmk 250,000 a person, or in the case of families from Fmk 100,000 to Fmk 150,000 a person. February 26. The individual limit on foreign ex- change sales for purchases of real estate abroad was raised from Fmk 175,000 to Fmk 250,000. 4 The upper limit on shares entitling part-time use of a second house abroad was raised to Fmk 75,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1982 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Francs Upper limit Lower limit 15.042 82.150 289.85 262.21 978.90 0.5201 14.380 78.535 277.09 250.67 935.85 0.4613 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua- tions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. Buy ing and selling rates for 20 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 30, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were F 6.7195 and F 6.7305, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account2 as follows: 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U .S. dollars, and zai'res. 2Ben in, Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP franc, which has a fixed parity with the franc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2). These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA franc, which circulates in Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, and MF 1 = F 0.01 for the Mali franc. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange for- ward for up to three months in respect of specified import items only, but they are allowed to sell forward foreign exchange whether or not there is an underlying transaction. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic, that is, in conti- nental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, Reunion, and St. Pierre and Miquelon), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Futuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2); payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control pur- poses; all payments between France and foreign coun- tries are subject to exchange control. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward and outward direct investment and other borrowing abroad on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021, of November 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to financial relations with all countries except those belong- ing to the French Franc Zone (i .e ., Operations Account countries). Certain exchange operations are free from any prior authorization; these include direct investment coming from and going to EEC countries, which are nevertheless submitted to prior notification. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is respon- sible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the M in is try of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export proce- dures and controls, w i th in the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Direc- torate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.3 Settlements w i th all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of 3 Comprising the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wa l l is and Fu tuna Is lands ). 198 foreign currencies on the exchange market by a nonresi- dent; (2) the franc proceeds of the sale of foreign bank notes to an authorized bank by a nonresident bank or a traveler; (3) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French bank notes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Ac- counts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a nonresident, inc lud ing interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the proceeds, income, and amortization from French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, and the proceeds of the sale on a French stock exchange of securities de- nominated in French francs, including securities held by authorized banks and accruing in France to a nonresident by inheritance up to F 500,000; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments;4 and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary pub l ic, of real estate belonging to nonresidents. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresi- dent of foreign bank notes or w i thdrawa ls in French bank notes; (3) the equ iva lent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French bank notes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents (see footnote 4); (7) purchases of real estate from residents, through the intermediation of a notary pub l ic; (8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance w i th the relevant regulations by residents; (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident; and ( 1 1) repayment of consumer and real estate loans by French banks for foreigners living in France. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. The unremittable funds of emigrants of French na t iona l i ty must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs)', emigrants of foreign nationality become nonresidents immediately and, therefore, may take out all of their assets upon departure. Diplomatic personnel working in France may hold resident and nonresident accounts. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts w i th French and foreign- owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade 4Sub ject to compliance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Febru- ary 22, 1971, Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972, and Decree No. 80- 618 of August 4, 1980. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions and individual licenses. Imports of goods wh ich originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent ter- ritories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Fin- land, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;5 (3) the Eastern European countries (A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R . ), the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another coun t ry, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of l ibera l i- zation. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is re la t ive ly little difference between the lists of goods wh ich may be imported freely from d ifferent countries in th is group, these differences relating ma in ly to Hong Kong. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated annua l ly (petroleum and petro- leum products) or sem iannua l ly and apply to all coun- tries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. 5 A fghan i s tan, A rgen t ina, Au s t r a l i a, B h u t a n, B o l i v i a, B r a z i l, Bu rma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, H a i t i, Hondu ras, I n d i a, Indone s ia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Japan, Repub l ic of Korea, L iby an A rab Jamah ir iya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Ph i l ipp ines, Saudi Arabia, South A f r ica, Sri Lanka, Tha i land, U ruguay, Venezue la, Yemen A r ab R e p u b l i c, and People's Democratic R e p u b l ic of Yemen. FRANCE Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do require a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation (registration) of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appropriate m in is try is required on an import declara- tion. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require ind iv idual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance w i th trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a def in i te period. Imports of some products, inc lud ing videotape recorders and animal- based food, must pass through designated customs ports. Documents accompanying goods passing through cus- toms must be wr i t ten or translated into French. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or w i th foreign currency purchased in the French exchange marke t. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and va lued at F 125,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to wh ich the necessary import documents must be presented and through wh ich all paymen ts related to the import must be made. The amoun ts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to l im i ta t ion, but in practice, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion does not make import payments valued at over F 125,000, as it does not undertake domiciliation. Authorized banks may w i thout special authorization permit advance paymen ts to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 percent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 percent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Adm in is t ra t ion. For all imports, impor- ters may purchase spot foreign currency two working days before u t i l iza t ion; u t i l iza t ion cannot take place before the payment falls due. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. Forward cover for import paymen ts is l im i ted to specified commodities, name ly, green coffee, rice, hides and sk ins, ha irs, wool, cotton, and cotton waste. Forward cover must not exceed three mon ths and must be carried out in the currency stipulated in the contract and be terminated not later than the day of the settlement; should settlement be effected before the expiration of three mon ths, the operation must be canceled for the rema in ing period. If the settlement of the contract is deferred, the forward covering can be extended for a m a x im um of eight days w i thout prior au thor iza t ion. In cases where the contract is canceled, the covering operation must be terminated immediately. If the cancellation results in a foreign exchange profit, the bank involved must inform the monetary authorities. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If jus t ify ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limitation; for certain other categories of current invisibles, estab- lished limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applications are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remit- tances abroad up to the equivalent of F 3,000 a person, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Transfers of donations to nonresidents are subject to authorization by the Bank of France. Payments that may be authorized without limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; banking commis- sions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court deci- sions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip,6 which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equiva- lent of F 1,000 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered within one month upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 2,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs, as may hotel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French bank notes. These bank notes may be 6As part of a set of measures introduced on March 28, 1983, the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents was reduced for a period through December 31, 1983 to F 2,000 a person, to be implemented on an annual basis. 200 used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French bank notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French bank notes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French bank notes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in means of payments acquired in the exchange market against a tourist travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign bank notes, unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m inus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in addition, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign bank notes or foreign currency traveler's checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conver- sion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repatriation7 and, where appropriate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries are required not later than 15 days from export deliveries. Small business exporters may be authorized by the Bank of France to deposit up to 5 percent of export receipts or F 30,000 a month, whichever is lower, in foreign currency ac- counts. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the exchange market, as may the proceeds from the discounting of foreign currency drafts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract may not be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization or when a guarantee by the Com- pagnie Franchise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exter- ieur (COFACE) has been obtained. For values exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000, export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign bank notes or bank notes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations 7 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Account w i th the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France; in addition, for such amoun ts, exporters are required w i t h in one month from the date of sh ipment to sell on a spot or forward basis 90 percent of the foreign currency proceeds from exports. All export transactions related to foreign countries and valued at F 125,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from dom ic i l ia t ion requ i remen ts. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv i s ib les w i th Monaco and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other coun tr ies in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets (w i th the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered w i t h in one mon th from the due date and in any case w i t h in eight wo rk ing days of receipt. W i th m inor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonres iden ts do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bank notes and coin (except gold co in) in francs, CFA f rancs, CFP f rancs, or any fore ign currency; however, the exchange of bank notes issued by A lger ia, Morocco, and Tun is ia is proh ib i ted at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign bank notes or t rave le r 's checks in excess of F 1,000 w i t h in a mon th of en t ry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. W i th the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, ou tward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; cap i tal receipts from foreign countries are permitted f ree ly, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inve s tmen t ). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Outward remittances of funds for the purpose of buy ing a second place of residence is subject to prior authorization by the Bank of France. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned fund s, inc lud ing the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited w i th an authorized bank in a fore ign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres)', French securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must FRANCE be deposited w i th an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt w i th or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign secur i t ies held in France by residents must be deposited w i th a qua l i f ied bank or broker. Res iden ts may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French securities held in France is proh ib i ted, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance w i th the special regulations concerning inward and ou tward direct investment that are summarized below, and the provision of the devise titre sys tem ,8 residents may purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized bank s, excep t, however, equ i t ies w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than f ive years issued by foreign governmen ts .9 French and foreign secur i t ies may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of secu r i t ies denominated in foreign currency may be reinvested in such securities not later than one mon th from the se l l ing date, or be sold to another resi- dent on the devise titre market w i th in the same period; beyond the t ime l im i t s, the proceeds in foreign currency mu st be sold in the exchange marke t. Correspondingly, nonres iden ts ho ld ing French or foreign securities abroad (whe ther acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them in to France through an authorized bank and hold them in a foreign dossier. Only French secur i t ies may, howeve r, be sold in France, w i th the proceeds be ing repatriable by nonresidents. The exchange control regulations inc lude controls over inwa rd and outward direct inves tment and other borrowing abroad on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021, of November 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to f in an c i al re la t ions w i th all countries except those belong- ing to the French Franc Zone ( i . e ., Operation Accounts coun t r ies ). Certain exchange operations are free from any prior authorization; these include direct investment com ing from and going to EEC countries, wh ich are nevertheless subm i t ted to prior no t i f ica t ion. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in France and French direct inves tmen ts abroad, inc lud ing loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inve s tmen t, requ ire prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Unless specifically exempted, 75 percent of direct inves tment abroad must be financed by borrowing in fore ign currency. Such loans must have an i n i t i al m a tu r i ty of at least two years and cannot be be repaid in advance w i thout au thor iza t ion. In principle, foreign companies domiciled in EC member countries are free to take over any participation in the equ i ty K Und er the devise titre sys tem, purchases of fore ign secur i t ies by res iden ts are requ ired to be matched by the proceeds from sales of such secu r i t ies by res iden ts. The devise titre is the u n it of account in w h i ch these m a t c h i ng operations are d enom in a t ed, and i ts v a lue can f luc tua te on the basis of domestic demand and supp ly of foreign securities. 9The e x i s t i ng gene ral pe rm iss ions do not cover the sale in France by non r e s id en t s, or the purchase abroad by res iden ts, of secur i t ies that are not quo ted on a recognized stock exchange. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE capital of a French company. The Directorate of the Treasury is, however, entitled to issue a f ind ing w i th in two months to forbid such participation should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, or defense, or thought to be sought on account of a third party outside the EC. For countries outside the EC, prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital move- ment. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a firm whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm may be considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluating the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, patents and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. However, loans granted by a foreign company to its French subsidiary are free from any prior authorization up to F 5 million a year, provided that (a) the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, (b) a schedule of repayment is defined, and (c) each drawing remains outstanding for at least one year. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation pro- ceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days after it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized above, the making of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 1 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transac- tions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mu tual fund s, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury func t ions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups, as well as the financing of investments in agriculture and real estate. The l iqu i- dation of direct investment abroad is free from any prior application provided that the corresponding funds are repatriated to France in due time. Certain inward direct investment up to F 5 million a transaction also is exempt from prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- 202 dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from this authori- zation: (1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execu- tion of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (4) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or capital), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans contracted by banks ex- pressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized banks); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank f i rms, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of direct inves tmen t, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each drawing against the loan is separated by at least one year from the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior au thor iza t ion. The application of the controls over direct inves tment and borrowing is dele- gated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are ma in ly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, w i th in the frame- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been v i r tua l ly free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and vary ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is prohibited, w i th minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free from l im i ta t ion. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, inc lud ing treasury b i l ls, bans de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to wh ich residents have free access and in which norma l ly no off ic ial intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold hav ing neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France require prior authorization by the Bank of France. Imports or exports to or from the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted from that requirement. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution both personal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold- plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 22. The bilateral central rates and interven- tion rates between the French franc and the Belgian franc and Danish krone were adjusted. June 14. The bilateral central rates and intervention rates between the French franc and the currencies of the other participants in the European Monetary System were adjusted. Nonresident Accounts March 25. The m in imum period after which a French national outside France would be considered as being a nonresident was restored to two years, after having been reduced to one year in April 1981. After the expiration of the m in imum period, transfers of assets abroad would be subject to authorization by the Bank of France. August 24. The Bank of France formally confirmed that residents of foreign nationality who had lived in France for more than two years could hold abroad funds generated outside France. Imports and Import Payments January 29. The French Government announced a temporary stoppage of customs clearance operations for Italian wine intended for the French market. February 2. The European Commission authorized France to exempt the following items from Community treatment (implying free circulation of imported goods inside the Community after entry into a member coun- try): (a) radio receivers (with or without sound recorders or reproducers) originating in Taiwant and Hong Kong, until August 31; (b) tents originating from the Republic of Korea, until Ju ly 31; and (c) umbrellas and sunshades originating in Taiwant and Hong Kong, until Septem- ber 30. February 15. The European Commission authorized France to exclude Japanese and Taiwaneset color televi- sion sets from Community treatment, until Ju ly 31. FRANCE March 12. The European Commission authorized France to exclude quartz watches originating in Hong Kong from Community treatment, for the period March 1- October 31. April 19. The European Commission authorized France to suspend, until June 30, imports of shirts from Turkey. October 20. The French Government announced the following measures that were to be implemented within a six-week period: (a) all products imported into France were required to bear indication of country of origin; (b) all documents accompanying goods passing through customs were required to be written in French, (c) further elaborations were made in regulations concerning the contents of import declarations and certain other commercial practices; and (d) customs operations for the importation of videotape recorders were localized in the customs post of Poitiers. November 29. The European Commission authorized France to freeze imports of woods, bed linen, and sweaters made of wool, cotton, or textile fibers from Turkey, for the period November 27-December 31. December 1. The European Commission authorized France to exclude from Community treatment imports of toys from Japan, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, and Taiwan .t December 1. The French Government issued an ordinance laying down regulations aimed at hygienic controls of imports of animal-based food products, including snails, foie gras, sausages, and cheese. Payments for Invisibles March 25. Transfers of donations to nonresidents were made subject to to authorization by the Bank of France. Export and Export Proceeds March 25. The maximum period for the surrender of export proceeds was reduced from one month to 15 days from the date of export delivery. Capital March 25. Outward remittances of funds for the purpose of buying a second place of residence were made subject to prior authorization by the Bank. March 25. A requirement was introduced that 75 per- cent of direct investment abroad should be financed by borrowing in foreign currency; such loans should have an initial maturity of at least two years and could not be repaid in advance without authorization. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the BEAC and commer- cial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Re- public, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries, that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks 'The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the Congo. 204 in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (where the value is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts, a provi- sional authorization is given to avoid administrative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing but, with a few exceptions,2 licenses are granted liberally in practice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are suspended except when originating from member countries of the UDEAC. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Directorate of Financial Institutions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of 2Cement, sugar, batteries, and refined vegetable oil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any num- ber of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Ex- port proceeds normally must be received w i th in 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers GABON to all other countries require the approval of the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign cur- rency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months from receipt of the declaration, the Ministry may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt .from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A minimum of 10 percent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protec- tion against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the intervention currency, at D 4 = £ stg. 1. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals in pounds sterling at the fixed rate of D 4 = £ stg. 1, subject to a commission of 0.0625 percent buying and 0.5 percent selling. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 percent of the Central Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against the pound sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a multiple currency practice associated with a requirement that the domestic currency counterpart of all external payments arrears be placed in a Blocked Account at the Central Bank of The Gambia. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign currencies for imports covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments abroad. All other sales of foreign currencies are subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or pounds sterling from nonresident sources or in any other currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of other countries may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments from residents of other coun- tries, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other currencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of other currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly for social or health reasons or on grounds of public policy. The import from any country of rice, sugar, and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. Except for imports from Eastern European countries, the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Japan, which are subject to specific licensing, all other imports are freely permitted under an open general license. Settlement for imports from Eastern European coun- tries may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of importation for any commod- ity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports that do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance pay- ments for imports, whether or not these are covered by specific licenses, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance w i th normal commercial practice. Payments for imports may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any other currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 2 percent of the c . i .f. value unless otherwise specified. Imports made by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt. There have been some delays in import payments. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles in foreign currencies require permission from the Central Bank, with the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Permis- sion is given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance of up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel abroad. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide residents with exchange facilities of up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day, subject to a maximum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission from the Central Bank, but all such applications are approved provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken out in foreign currency notes and coin. Irrespective of destination, a traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian or pound sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. There have been some delays in service payments on external debt. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requirements, the export of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all other goods can generally be made without individual licensing, if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the Central Bank. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received through an authorized dealer within six months from the date of export in dalasis, or in pounds sterling from an External Account, or in any other currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restric- tion on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but outward transfers are subject to control. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident inves- tors may apply for a clearance from the Central Bank to facilitate subsequent repatriation of capital; the remit- tance of profits is allowed freely after provision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gambia. All other applications to transfer capital abroad are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered out- side The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coin minted in the United Kingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coin and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Bel- gium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), whereby each country maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other participating countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other partici- pants are maintained within margins of 2.25 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or minus 6 percent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Deutsch ie Mark Upper limit Lower limit 5.308 28.99 36.09 3.454 1.835 92.525 5.074 27.715 34.50 3.302 1.682 88.455 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert with other participants to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. In principle, interventions are made in participating curren- cies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of Frankfurt am Main .2 On December 31, 1982 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 2.3765 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 'The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization, and the Ministries of Econom- ics of the Laender. The Deutsche Bundesbank is in charge of the im- plementation of capital controls, but no such controls are currently in place. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Cen- tral Capital Market Committee, formulates recommenda- tions with regard to the timing of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 9,170 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: some 8,484 items may be imported free of license from any country. Commodities corresponding to some 8,772 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Country List A /B .3 Most items under import licensing are agricultural commodities under EC regulations. The import of some 600 textile items is governed by bilateral agreements of the EC with various supplier countries under the arrangement regarding international trade in textiles. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EC covers about 1,700 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (153 statistical items) when originating in and purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., or Viet Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued auto- matically upon application, provided that domestic pro- duction and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA4 procedure). Imports of certain commodities among those not subject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes 3 Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 4Ausschre ibungen mil laufender Antragstellung. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Industry. These import declarations are partly prescribed by the EC. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Aus- schreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are perma- nently open (AMLA procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related pay- ments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treat- ment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licens- ing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 3), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents; however, receipts exceeding DM 2,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. 210 Capital Residents and nonresidents may, in principle, export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval, although a voluntary monitoring sys- tem of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. The placement abroad of bonds denominated in deutsche mark through the intermedia- tion of subsidiaries of German banks in Luxembourg is banned, on the basis of a gentlemen's agreement between the banks and the Bundesbank. The issue of external bonds denominated in deutsche mark must be made through a banking consortium with at least one German bank with residence in Germany serving as a lead manager. In principle, domestic and foreign securi- ties of all types may be imported or exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed interest securi- ties by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a withholding tax of 25 percent ("coupon tax"). There are no limita- tions on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve requirements on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1982 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 10.15 percent, 7.15 percent, and 4.5 percent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 13 percent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 6.5 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold ex- changes between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. In June 1978, Ghana introduced a flexible exchange system under which the exchange rate for the cedi in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, was to be adjusted to reflect the underlying economic, financial, and balance of payments situation. Such adjustments were discontinued, however, in August 1978 and had not been resumed by December 31, 1982. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rate for the U .S. dollar was <£ 2.75 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for .certain other currencies,l with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. Different exchange rates for the cedi arise from the application of an export bonus scheme (20 percent for all exports except cocoa, residual oil, and electricity), a 20 percent tax on the value of letters of credit issued, a 50 percent surcharge on exchange allocations for student travel, and an 80 percent surcharge on exchange allocations for other foreign travel. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on imports, the recommendations of which are subject to approval by the Committee of Secretaries representing the various ministries. All im- port licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange trans- actions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries are made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with 'Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Ghana maintains a bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 212 which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U .S. dollars. Current payments to or from the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their staffs. This facility's also available to international institutions and foreign registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, other than restricted curren- cies. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, for example, certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are not permitted. Imports of some goods, including virtually all textiles and textile products, chocolate, and chilled or frozen f ish, are prohibited. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed harmful to health or public order are severely restricted. Importa- tion of certain goods may be allowed under special license where no transfer of foreign exchange through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Bank of Ghana or a commercial bank is required. There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely from any country trade sam- ples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domestic pets, headloads of foodstuffs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items involving use of official foreign exchange require a specific import license. There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses which are issued for items that are considered essential within the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. For cases not requiring the provision of official foreign exchange, there is a special license by which specific goods could be imported in commercial quantities. A 10 percent tax (the Special Development Tax) is levied on all goods imported under special licenses. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is, in principle, granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. How- ever, arrears exist with respect to both current import payments and the repayments of matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. With effect from January 2, 1980 the Bank of Ghana ceased to issue letters of credit or to perform other commercial banking operations related to import transactions. The Bank of Ghana, however, provides the necessary foreign ex- change cover to the authorized banks. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghanaian banks, and usually on a sight basis. A 20 percent tax is levied on the value of letters of credit. The cash margin deposit requirement has been abol- ished. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank draft unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buying commission on imports is not GHANA permitted. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees and self-employed persons are normally limited to 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commitments outside Ghana, includ- ing leave expenses, travel, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Employees in the m in ing, timber, f ish ing, petroleum, and banking industries are, however, offered a choice between two alternative facilities. Under one of these, they are allowed to transfer 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of du ty. Under the other facility, when documentary evidence of their commitments outside Ghana can be produced in support of their applications, employees can transfer 70 percent of their net annual earnings and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of du ty. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident com- panies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel, which had been reintroduced on August 21, 1978, was sus- pended again on August 7, 1979; foreign exchange for business travel is granted in exceptional cases. With the exception of those for students, all travel allocations are subject to a tax of 80 percent; the tax on allocations for students is 50 percent. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who are leaving Ghana by air or sea for any purpose, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 80 percent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to <£ 160, provided that not more than the equivalent of <£> 40 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian bank notes up to (£ 40 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- utilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Marketing Company, and diamonds 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G H A NA are e x p o r t ed t h r o u gh the D i a m o nd M a r k e t i ng C o r p o r a­ t i o n. N o r m a l l y, s p e c i f ic e x p o rt l i c e n s es are r e q u i r e d. W i th the e x c e p t i o ns n o t ed b e l o w, expo r t e rs are re­ q u i r ed to c o l l e ct a nd repa t r ia te the f u ll p ro c e eds f r om t h e ir e x p o r ts w i t h in 60 d a ys of s h i pm e n t; e x p o rt p r o­ ceeds in f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge mu st be su r r end e r ed to a c o m m e r c i al b a nk in G h a na u p on r e c e i p t. E x p o r t e rs s u r r e n d e r i ng e x p o rt p ro c e eds in e x t e r n al A f r i c an c u r r e n­ c i es or c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i es are g r an t ed an e x p o rt b o n u s. T h is b o n us is 20 p e r c ent of the p ro c e eds for a ll expo r ts e x c e pt c o c o a, r e s i d u al o i l, a nd e l e c t r i c i t y. A n um b er of c om p a n i es in the e x p o rt sec tor are a l l o w ed to r e t a in up to 20 p e r c ent of t h e ir e x p o rt p ro c e eds in a c coun ts a b r o ad f or f i n a n c i ng e s s e n t i al im p o r t s. ( S u ch im p o r ts a re, h o w e v e r, sub ject to the im p o rt l i c e n s e .) Proceeds from Invisibles A ll r e c e ip ts f r om i n v i s i b l es m u st be s o ld to a u t h o r i z ed d e a l e r s. F o r e i gn c u r r e n cy no tes m ay be im p o r t ed f r e e l y. T he im p o rt of G h a n a i an c u r r e n cy no tes in ex c e ss of <fc 40 is p r o h i b i t e d. Capital F o r e i gn i n v e s tm e nt in G h a na r e q u i r es p r i or a p p r o v al by the C a p i t al I n v e s tm e nt C e n t re if it is to bene f it f r om the f a c i l i t i es a v a i l a b le u n d er the Inv e s tm en ts C o d e, 1 9 8 1. Inv e s tm en ts a p p r o v ed u n d er the C o de are gu a r an­ t e ed, in p r i n c i p l e, the r i g ht to t rans fer p ro f i ts a n d, in the event of sa le or l i q u i d a t i o n, c a p i t al p r o c e e d s; tax h o l i d a y s, i n i t i al c a p i t al a l l o w a n c e s, e t c ., are a l so a v a i l­ ab le for s u ch i n v e s tm e n t s. T he C o de s t ipu la tes that the assets of f o r e i gn i n v e s t o rs m ay not be e x p r o p r i a t ed a nd that, w h en a p p r o v ed en te rp r i ses are n a t i o n a l i z e d, f a ir c om p e n s a t i on is to be d e t e rm i n e d. W h e re there is a d i spu te o v er the am o u nt of c om p e n s a t i o n, the d i spu te s h a ll be s e t t l ed in a c c o r d a n ce w i th the e s t a b l i s h ed p r o c e d u re for c o n c i l i a t i o n, f or e x am p l e, t h r o u gh a rb i t r a­ t i on by the I n t e r n a t i o n al C e n t er for S e t t l em en ts of Inve s tment D i s p u t e s. C e r t a in areas of e c o n o m ic a c t i v i ty are not o p en to f o r e i g n e r s. T he p r o c e e ds of the sa les of f o r e i gn ow n e r s h ip to G h a n a i an n a t i o n a ls are h e ld in b l o c k e d, n o n - i n t e r e s t - b e a r i ng a c c o u n ts w i th the B a nk of G h a n a; these a c coun ts c a r ry an e x c h a n ge rate gua ran tee. T r an s f e rs of s u ch funds are b e i ng e f fec ted g r a d u a l l y. A ll o u t g o i ng c a p i t al m o v em e n ts mu st be a p p r o v ed by the B a nk of G h a n a; a p p l i c a t i o ns for s u ch transfers mu st be s u p p o r t ed by d o c um e n t a ry e v i d e n ce a nd are c o n s i d­ e r ed on t h e ir m e r i t s. T r a n s f e rs to b e n e f i c i a r i es u n d er w i l ls a nd in t e s t a c i es are a p p r o v e d, p r o v i d ed that a ll l o c al ind eb t edn e ss has b e en s e t t l ed. R e q u e s ts for the t rans fer of funds r ep r e s en t ing p e r s o n al assets of f o r e i gn r e s id en ts in G h a na w ho em i g r a te are c o n s i d e r ed i n d i v i d u a l ly on th e ir m e r i t s. A p p l i c a t i o ns mu st be s u p p o r t ed by a p p r o­ p r ia te d o c um e n t a t i on s h o w i ng that the s a v i n gs are g e n u i ne and that no i l l e g al t rans fer of c a p i t al is i n v o l v e d. P r o c e e ds f r om the l i q u i d a t i on of the r e al assets of f o r e i gn n a t i o n a ls l e a v i ng G h a na m ay be a p p r o v ed f or t ran s fer in one l u mp s um or m ay be sp r e ad o v er a p e r i od of t i m e, d e p e n d i ng on the am o u n t. L o an a nd ove rd ra ft f a c i l i t i es to r e s id ent c om p a n i es c o n t r o l l ed by non r e s id en ts r e q u i re the i n d i v i d u al ap­ p r o v al of the B a nk of G h a n a. R e s i d e n ts w ho are p r i v a te pe r sons are not n o rm a l ly g r an t ed f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge f or the a c q u i s i t i on of s e cu r i t i es or p e r s o n al r e al estate a b r o a d. T r a n s a c t i o ns in s e c u r i t i es are c o n t r o l l ed to ensu re that c a p i t al is not t ran s fe r red a b r o a d. In re spect of p o r t f o l io i n v e s tm e n t s, re s iden ts mu st o b t a in a p p r o v al for any s w i t ch in t h e ir h o l d i n gs of s e c u r i t i es i s s u ed by non r e s id en t s. P r i v a te sec tor a nd c o m m e r c i al b a nk b o r­ r o w i ng r e q u i re the a p p r o v al of the B a nk of G h a n a, as do p r i v a te im p o rt c r ed i ts in ex c e ss of 0 2 4 0 , 0 00 for m a c h i n e ry a nd e q u i pm e n t; f o r e i gn b o r r o w i ng by G h a n a i an n a t i o n a ls is sub ject to c e r t a in g u i d e l i n es by the G o v e r nm e n t. L e n d i ng to non r e s id en ts is p r o h i b i t e d, ex c ept for e x p o rt c r e d i t s; these r e q u i re e x c h a n ge c o n t r ol a p p r o v a l, and n o r m a l ly are l i m i t ed to 60 d a y s. Gold R e s i d e n ts m ay h o ld a nd nego t ia te in G h a na g o ld o b t a i n ed d om e s t i c a l ly by w a s h i ng or m i n i ng a c c o r d i ng to i n d i g e n o us m e t h o d s, g o ld c o i ns that are c o l l e c t o r s' p i e c e s, a nd g o ld j e w e l r y. O t h er d om e s t ic t r an s a c t ions in g o l d, as w e ll as im p o r ts and e x p o r t s, m ay be a u t h o r i z ed by the M i n i s t ry of T r a de in c o l l a b o r a t i on w i th the B a nk of G h a n a, a nd c e r t a in d om e s t ic sa les m ay be c a r r i ed out by p e rm it u n d er the G o ld M i n i ng P r o d u c ts P r o t e c t i on O r d i n a n c e. W i th these e x c e p t i o n s, G h a n a i an r e s id en ts m ay not b uy or b o r r ow any g o ld f r o m, or s e ll or l e nd a ny g o ld t o, any p e r s on o ther than an a u t h o r i z ed d e a l e r. Impo r ts of g o ld o ther than im p o r ts by or on b e h a lf of the m o n e t a ry au tho r i t i es are not n o r m a l ly l i c e n s e d. T he im p o rt du ty on b u l l i o n, p a r t ly w o r k ed g o l d, a nd o th er g o ld is l e v i ed at a u n i f o rm rate of 35 p e r c e n t. T he g o ld m i n es e x p o rt t h e ir ou tput in s em i r e f i n ed f o r m. E x p o r ts by any one p e r s on or f i rm in ex c e ss of 1 0 0 , 0 00 o u n c es are sub ject to e x p o rt tax at a rate of 0 3 a t r oy o u n c e. Changes during 1982 No s i g n i f i c a nt ch ang es o c c u r r ed in the e x c h a n ge a nd trade s y s t em. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution G R E E CE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement T he c u r r e n cy of G r e e ce is the G r e ek D r a c h m a. A l t h o u gh a m em b er of the E C, G r e e ce does not p a r t i c i p a te in the e x c h a n ge rate a nd i n t e r v e n t i on m e c h a­ n i sm of the E u r o p e an M o n e t a ry S y s t em ( E M S ). T he au tho r i t i es of G r e e ce ope ra te a m a n a g ed f lo at for the d r a c hm a. On D e c e m b er 3 1, 1982 b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates f or the U . S. d o l l a r, the i n t e r v e n t i on c u r r e n c y, in the in t e rb ank m a r k et w e re Dr 7 0 . 50 a nd Dr 7 0 . 6 4, r e sp e c­ t i v e l y, p er U S $ 1 .1 Q u o t a t i o ns f or c e r t a in o th er c u r r e n­ c i e s2 are d e t e rm i n ed d a i ly in the i n t e r b a nk m a r k et at the d a i ly f i x i n g3 s e s s i o n. A c o m p u l s o ry c o m m i s s i on is c h a r g ed on a ll f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge t r a n s a c t i o n s. T he c o m m i s s i on ra te d e c l i n es f r om 0 .2 pe rcent to 0 . 0 1 25 pe rcent as the s i ze of the t r a n s a c t i on inc rea ses f r om Dr 2 5 0 , 0 00 to Dr 30 m i l l i o n; no ch a rg es are l e v i ed on t r an s a c t ions of up to U S $ 1 5 0, a nd the m a x i m um ch a rge of Dr 4 , 5 00 is a p p l i ed o n ly to pu r ch a s es of f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e. T he B a nk of G r e e ce o f fe rs f o rw a rd c o v er in U . S. d o l l a rs o n l y, at rates d e t e rm i n ed by the B a n k. A d d i t i o n al e f f e c t i ve e x c h a n ge rates r e su lt f r om the a p p l i c a t i on of a d v a n ce im p o rt d e p o s it r e q u i r em e n t s. Administration of Control E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol p o l i cy is the r e s p o n s i b i l i ty of the B a nk of G r e e ce (the c e n t r al b a n k ). U n d er L aw N o. 9 3 6/ 7 9, the M i n i s t ry of C o m m e r ce is r e s p o n s i b le for im p o rt a nd e x p o rt p o l i c y. E x c h a n ge c o n t r ol is im p l em e n t ed a nd f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge a p p r o v a ls for im p o r ts in s p e c i f i ed cases are g r an t ed by a u t h o r i z ed c o m m e r c i al b a n k s. Im p o rt a nd e x p o rt l i c e n s es are a l so i s s u ed by a u t h o r i z ed b a n k s. T he a u t h o r i z ed b a n ks m ay m a ke e x c h a n ge set­ t lemen ts r e l a t i ng to m o st trade t r an s a c t ions a nd m ay g rant r e s id en ts a s t and a rd t r a v el a l l o w a n c e. T h ey m ay a l so m a ke e x c h a n ge p a ym e n ts f or a n um b er of s p e c i f i ed t r an s a c t ions in i n v i s i b l e s. Prescription of Currency S e t t l em en ts w i th a ll c o u n t r i es are m a de in any c o n­ v e r t i b le c u r r e n cy or t h r o u gh E x t e r n al S i g ht D e p o s it A c c o u n ts in c o n v e r t i b le d r a c hm a s. Nonresident Accounts N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay m a i n t a in a c coun ts in G r e e c e, as f o l l o w s: 1. Deposits in foreign exchange under Legislative Decree No. 2687153. N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay e s t a b l i sh t ime !On January 9, 1983 the G r e ek drachma was devalued by 15.5 percent against the U . S. do l lar and a ll other currencies. 2A u s t r a l i an do l lars, Au s tr ian sch i l l ing s, B e lg ian francs, Canad ian do l lars, C y p r us pounds, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche mark, F inn i sh markkaa, F r en ch francs, Irish pounds, Italian l ire, Japanese y en, Netherlands gu i lders, No rw eg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Swed ish kronor, and Sw iss francs. 3 T he da i ly f ix ing rates are the o f f ic ial exchange rates of the drachma against the respective fore ign currenc ies. d epo s it a c coun ts in f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy f or a m i n i m um p e r i od of s ix mon ths a nd w i th a m i n i m um d e p o s it in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i es e q u i v a l e nt to U S $ 1 0 , 0 0 0; b a l­ ances on these a c coun ts e a rn in te rest not e x c e e d i ng 8 pe rcent a y e a r. In terest rates v a ry a c c o r d i ng to the t e rm of the a c c o u n t, but l i m i ts are f i x e d, as f o l l o w s: f or 6 mon ths to 12 m o n t h s, 7 pe rcent a yea r; f or 12 m o n t hs to 24 m o n t h s, 7 .5 pe rcent a y e a r; a nd for 24 m o n t hs a nd o v e r, 8 pe rcent a y e a r. P r i n c i p al a nd in te rest are f r e e ly t rans fe rab le at m a t u r i ty in the c u r r e n cy of the d e p o s i t. 2. External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas and in foreign currencies. N o n r e s i d e n ts are p e rm i t t ed to o p en E x t e r n al S i g ht D e p o s it A c c o u n ts in c o n v e r t i b le d r a c hm as or f o r e i gn c u r r e n c i e s. D e p o s i ts in c o n v e r t i b le d r a c hm as are a s s i g n ed by a b a nk to the B a nk of G r e e ce aga in st d r a c hm as at the o f f i c i al rate of e x c h a n g e. D e p o s i ts in c o n v e r t i b le f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy are h e ld by the b a n k s. A ny w i t h d r a w al f r om d r a c hma a c coun ts for use in G r e e ce a nd a ny c o n v e r s i on of w i t h d r aw a ls f r om f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy a c c o u n ts i n to d r a c h­ mas e n t a il the lo ss of the r e c o n v e r s i on r i g ht f or the sums w i t h d r a w n. At the e nd of 1 9 8 2, the m a x i m um rate of in terest on s u ch a c coun ts w i th the b a n ks w as 1.5 p e r­ cent a y e a r. T h e se a c coun ts m ay be c r e d i t ed w i th (a) c o n v e r t i b le f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge or the p r o c e e ds f r om sa les of c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s; (b) a u t h o r i z ed p a ym e n ts by re s iden ts of G r e e ce for im p o r ts or s e r v i c es p a y a b le in c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c i e s; (c) transfers f r om o th er E x t e r n al S i g ht D e p o s it A c c o u n t s; a nd (d) a c c r u ed in te rest on these d e p o s i t s. T h ey m ay be d e b i t ed for (a) p a ym e n ts to re s iden ts for cu r r ent t r a n s a c t i o n s, e x p o r t s, a nd s e r v i c e s; (b) the pu r ch a se a nd t rans fer a b r o ad of any c o n v e r t i b le c u r r e n c y; a nd (c) transfers to o ther E x t e r n al S i g ht D e p o s it A c c o u n t s. 3. Time Deposit Accounts in convertible foreign exchange. N o n r e s i d e n ts m ay m a ke t ime d e p o s i ts in c o n v e r t i b le f o r e i gn e x c h a n ge w i th b a n ks a u t h o r i z ed to d e al in f o r e i gn e x c h a n g e. T he in te rest ra te ^s d e t e rm i n ed f ree ly by the b anks a c c o r d i ng to p r e v a i l i ng rates in the i n t e r n a t i o n al m o n ey m a rk e ts w h e re the funds are p l a c e d. 4. Deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. S u ch d epo s i ts m ay be m a de as f o l l o w s: (a) G r e ek c i t i z e ns ( i n c l u d i ng seamen) w o r k i ng a b r o a d, c e r t a in G r e ek s o c i e t i es a nd a s s o c i a t i o ns o p e r a t i ng a b r o a d, a nd G r e ek n a t i o n a ls r e s i d i ng a b r o ad m ay m a k e, w i th funds o r i g i n a t i ng a b r o a d, d epo s i ts in U . S. d o l l a r s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, a nd p o u n ds s t e r l i ng w i th a u t h o r i z ed b anks in G r e e c e. T he p e r i o d, in te rest ra te s, a nd o ther terms of the d epo s i ts are d e t e rm i n ed by the b a n k s. At the e nd of 1982 the m a x i m um a n n u al in te rest rates p a y a b le on these a c coun ts w e re ( i) 1.5 p e r c ent for s ight d e p o s i t s; ( i i) 8 .625 pe rcent f or s a v i n gs d e p o s it a c c o u n ts in U . S. d o l l a r s, 9 pe rcent for C a n a d i an d o l l a rs a nd 1 0 . 25 pe rcent for s u ch a c coun ts in p o u n ds s t e r l i n g; a nd ( i i i) f or t ime d e p o s i t s, d e p e n d i ng on the t ime a nd the am o u n t, 9 . 3 7 5- 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 9.75 percent for accounts in U.S. dollars, 10.1875- 10.625 percent for accounts in Canadian dollars, and 15.375-15.625 percent for accounts in pounds sterling. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. The banks are obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece at least 70 percent of the increase in such deposits after July 1, 1980, at interest rates set by the Bank of Greece in accordance with developments in the Eurodollar market. The remaining 30 percent can be deposited abroad, with other domestic banks, the Bank of Greece, or placed in other assets. (b) The banks are not obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece for certain categories of deposits as follows: (i) deposits of shipping (including the ship- owners), insurance, and construction companies and of Olympic Airways and (ii) deposits above the equivalent of US$200,000 for each depositor within the categories mentioned in 4(a) above. 5. Deposits in other convertible currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling). Greek citizens (including seamen) working abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may open, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts in deutsche mark and other currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling) with authorized banks in Greece. The period and the other terms of the deposits are freely determined by the banks. The Bank of Greece estab- lishes maximum interest rates for each type and currency of deposit based on developments in the internal money markets of the countries in whose currencies the deposits are denominated. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. At the end of 1982 the maximum annual interest rates payable on these accounts were (a) for accounts in Belgian francs and French francs: 3 percent for sight deposits, 9 percent for savings deposits, and 14 percent and 15 percent, respectively, for time deposits of 1-12 months; (b) for accounts in Swiss francs: 1.5 percent for sight deposits, 2.5 percent for savings deposits, and 5.5 percent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (c) for accounts in Australian dollars: 3 percent for sight deposits, 7 percent for savings deposits, and 14 percent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (d) for accounts in Japanese yen: 2 percent for sight deposits, 4.0 percent for savings deposits, and 7.0 percent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (e) for accounts in Netherlands guilders: 2.5 percent for sight deposits, 5.0 percent for savings deposits, and 8.5 percent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (f) for accounts in Swedish kroner: 4 percent for sight deposits, 10 percent for savings deposits, and 14 percent for time deposits of 1-12 months; and (g) for accounts in deutsche mark and other convertible currencies: 3 percent for sight deposits, 6 percent for savings deposits, and 9 percent and 10 percent, respectively, for time deposits of 1-12 months. 216 Withdrawals in drachmas entail the loss of the reconver- sion right for the sums withdrawn. The banks are obliged to surrender the entire foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Greece at fixed parities in exchange for drachmas. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest are freely convert- ible into foreign exchange against reconversion of drachmas at the same fixed parities that were applied at the time of original conversion. Similar facilities for foreign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. 6. Blocked Accounts. All drachma assets of nonresi- dents other than those in External Sight Deposit Ac- counts must be declared, and are held in Blocked Accounts. Domestic bank notes in excess of Dr 1,500 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a Blocked Account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on Blocked Ac- counts held by residents of all countries excluding Turkey and Israel may be used for such purposes as (a) travel expenses for each visit to Greece and personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 200,000 a month of the visitor's stay in Greece and up to Dr 100,000 for other members of his family; for residents of Turkey or Israel, the corresponding limit is Dr 25,000 annually; (b) expenses for buying tickets for a maximum of two trips to Greece by the depositor and other members of his family; (c) expenses for paying taxes and lawyers' fees; and (d) investing in securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece and purchasing real estate in Greece. Payments abroad from funds in Blocked Ac- counts held by residents of countries that have special agreements with Greece4 may be released for remittance provided that (a) where the money deposited is derived exclusively from rents, amounts of up to US$1,000 (or its equivalent) may be transferred abroad semiannually and (b) where the money deposited is derived exclu- sively from pensions and the holder has been resident abroad since before December 31, 1975, up to US$300 a month, plus bonuses for New Year, Easter, and vaca- tion, up to a total of US$4,200 annually may be remitted abroad. Funds derived from dividends of postwar public loans and loans of public organizations are freely transferable abroad, and other balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between Blocked Accounts require prior approval. The amounts that may be withdrawn from Blocked Accounts differ in cases where the holders do not live in the countries listed in footnote 4. Balances on Blocked Accounts held by private individuals in the EC member countries are scheduled to be released in six equal annual installments during the period January 1, 1981 to January 1, 1986. 4Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King- dom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked balances may be deposited either with the Bank of Greece, where they bear no interest, or with a commercial bank, the Consignations and Loans Fund, and the Postal Savings Bank, where they earn interest of 11.5 percent a year. Resident Accounts Greek citizens have the option to open accounts in foreign exchange of the types described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above with foreign exchange earned as salaries from work abroad or as payments received for services performed outside Greece. Imports and Import Payments5 Imports require approval (except those of goods on Lists F and P with an invoice value c . i .f. of the equivalent of US$1,100 or less, for which payment must be made through an authorized bank), which is granted by a commercial bank. Commercial banks can finalize import applications only if rebates on invoices do not exceed 10 percent, or 50 percent if the value of the shipment is less than Dr 1 million. All other cases are handled by the Import Exchange Control Committee of the central bank. The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of commodities in Lists A and B (including textiles, television receivers, and certain foodstuffs, passenger cars, buses, and certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on Lists A and B licenses are being issued restrictively, but for the remainder they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, sulfur, and motion-picture films. Import licenses are not required for a few items in Lists A and B (such as textiles, cars, toys, certain types of machinery, car tire tubes, paper, ceramics, and cheese) if they are imported from EC countries. Private imports are subject to (1) restrictions on the method of payment; (2) controls over the time period required to make final settlement and the time of shipment; and (3) various advance deposit requirements. For the purpose of these regulations, all private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts. Payment by time draft is permitted only for goods in List P; there is no restriction on maturity. For imports not included in List P, the Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports at the Bank of Greece may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments. For imports included in List F, the commercial banks may occasionally authorize 5With the concurrence of the EC, Greece on January 13, 1983 introduced restrictions on imports of certain items covering less than 2 percent of Greece's total annual imports. GREECE payment by acceptance of a time draft. Payments for imports may be made on the presentation of entry documents. Various advance deposit requirements apply to im- ports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. Deposits are accepted by the intervening commercial bank, which redeposits them with the Bank of Greece. These deposits do not bear any interest. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Also exempt are duty-free imports and imports of raw materials and semifinished products for processing and re-export, as well as imports of final products for re-export. The Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports has authority to grant exemption. Different deposit requirements are stipulated, depending upon whether payments are made by letters of credit or cash against shipping documents. For items in List F, advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts or by cash against shipping documents. Generally, when a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the entire amount of the credit with the intervening bank; this deposit is retained by the bank to safeguard against default, and the final settlement is made against this deposit. Irrespective of whether payment is by letter of credit or by cash against shipping documents, a cash deposit related to the c . i .f. invoice value is required for imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, as security for import duties and other taxes. This deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained and may not be refunded before a period of two to four months from the date on which it was made. Advance deposits are not required for capital goods and spare parts exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing domestic or foreign investments. The rates of deposit in effect in 1982 are set out below:6 List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 Prepayment Security Total (In percent of invoice value) 25.0 10.0 35.0 8.0 3.2 11.2 50.0 20.0 70.0 16.0 6.4 22.4 Goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within three months of shipment. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the 6 These rates were reduced further by one fourth of the April 28, 1980 level, with effect from January 1, 1983, the new levels are as follows: List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 Prepayment Security Total (In percent of invoice value) 12.5 5.0 17.5 4.0 1.6 5.6 25.0 10.0 35.0 8.0 3.2 11.2 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE first Greek port; however, for goods in List P, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 3.6 percent of the c . i .f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, which is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 480 for travel to EC member countries and US$250 for travel to all other countries for one trip a year; in lieu of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. The Bank of Greece normally provides foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, within the following limits generally applying for each trip: US$4,000 for exporters; US$3,000 for industrialists and hotel managers; US$1,000 for other businessmen; US$1,500 for scientists attending international meetings; and US$1,000 for newspaper editors and reporters and travel agents. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. For medical treatment abroad, the Subcommittee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, provided that the relevant accounts are submitted. For under- graduate and postgraduate studies, various allocations are authorized, depending on the country of study, such as US$560 and US$620 a month, respectively, for the United States and Canada; £ stg. 270 and £ stg. 330 a month, respectively, for the United Kingdom; and DM 880 and DM 1,040 a month, respectively, for the Federal Republic of Germany. Authorized banks are also empowered to grant foreign exchange up to US$200 for a limited number of other transactions. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Dr 1,500 in Greek bank notes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all do- mestic and foreign bank notes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign bank notes without having declared them upon entry; the export of larger amounts after a visit of less than 12 months is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declaration upon entry. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared if the visit exceeds 12 months. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends to coun- tries other than EC members are restricted, and special regulations and limits apply to outward remittances of interest, dividends, and profits (see section on Capital, below). 218 Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all exports require individual licenses and are free of quantitative limitation. Beginning in 1981, all transactions for exports were undertaken by commercial banks, rather than the Chamber of Commerce. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 90 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodities. Industrial exporters can obtain subsidies in the form of interest rebates on loans or income tax deductions. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 1,500 in Greek bank notes. Any surplus is deposited in a Blocked Account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next journey. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they extend medium-term and long-term loans of equal amounts in foreign currency (or drachma loans with a foreign exchange clause) to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval (mainly for securing repatriation of imported capital). Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use, but repat- riation of the proceeds of liquidation is subject to the Central Bank's approval. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment; this decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits, as well as the transfer of interest thereon. Under Law No. 4171/61 (as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975), further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in invest- ment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 150 million in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, (1) approved investments may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 percent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 percent a year and 10 percent a year, respectively. (3) Approved loans in foreign currency can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 percent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed twice the value of the share capital. Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 percent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enter- prise from the sale of its products abroad. For invest- ments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. Article 33 of Law No. 849/78 provides for a higher percentage for the repatriation of capital (up to 15 percent) and of dividends (up to 20 percent), provided that the total amount does not exceed 30 percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the firm from exports during the same year. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatria- tion of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require ap- proval . The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns ( i .e ., those issued since 1974) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the Bank of Greece; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the free market that existed prior to Decem- GREECE ber 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import List F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to reputable impor- ters for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported freely, for purposes other than commercial, by commer- cial banks and other residents, as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except that gold bars or coin brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re- exported by the same person. Changes during 1982 Administration of Control July 2. The Currency Committee was abolished, and its responsibilities were transferred to the Bank of Greece and the competent ministries. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The prior deposit requirements for specified imports were reduced by one third of the level prevailing during 1981. March 9. Taxes on imported consumer goods were raised. April 24. In an effort to stop evasion of import duties through undervaluation, a requirement was introduced that import applications could be finalized by commer- cial banks only if rebates on invoices did not exceed 10 percent, or 50 percent if the value of each shipment was less than Dr 1 million. All other cases relating to rebates on invoices were to be referred to the Import Exchange Control Committee. November 3. Importers were no longer allowed to purchase foreign exchange more than four days before the date of payment. Exports November 3. Revisions were made in foreign trade regulations, including the following changes: (a) a speeding up of tax refunds on exported goods; (b) an extension of the three-month low-interest rate finance (10 percent) for export-oriented firms from export receipts in cash to exports on credits; (c) an increase from 1.5 percent to 3.0 percent in the proportion of a company's export earnings which could be deducted for income tax purposes; and (d) a reduction from six to three months in the maximum permissible period for the repatriation of export proceeds. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Dollar,l which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 percent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is ad- ministered by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control direc- tives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of coun- tries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. These accounts are maintained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign curren- cies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 220 permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license from all other countries. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade; however, the Ministry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports originating in CARICOM countries. Advance payments for imports also require prior ap- proval by this Ministry. Imports of equipment, spare parts, and raw materials for the manufacture of approved goods are exempted from import duties. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a stamp tax of 17.5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business travel, or the equivalent of US$5,000 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority region), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 and East Caribbean currency notes without limit. Nonresident travelers may freely export any foreign currency pre- viously brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period from the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on animals and specified agricultural goods, such as bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, coconuts, copra, cotton, and limes and related products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in East Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceed- ing to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such invest- ment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to GRENADA the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local currency financing is not ordinar- ily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The stamp duty on imports was raised by 2.5 percentage points to 12.5 percent. March 1. An import surcharge was introduced at a rate of 2 percent of c .i .f. value on goods subject to stamp duty. October 1. The stamp duty on imports was raised by 5 percentage points to 17.5 percent. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quet- zal, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Q 1 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1.01, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On January 27, 1947 Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Emergency Regime for controlling international capital movements, including decisions on cases not specifically covered in this regime. However, the Department's decisions may be appealed before the Monetary Board. Foreign ex- change transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala, while those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Payments in foreign currency must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Department. Banks participating in the system may authorize some foreign payments under powers delegated by the Bank of Guatemala. Exports of goods and services must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee the repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U .S. dollars. Transactions with other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)2 with respect to trade in invisibles are carried out in national currencies3 through the Central American Clearing House; clearing settlements are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, butter, vegetable oil, wheat flour, basic food 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 3 With the exception of Costa Rica, transactions w i th which are effected in U .S. dollars through Costa Rican banks. 222 grains, cottonseed, and a few other goods. Imports of cacao and tallow are prohibited from all sources. Imports from Honduras are regulated by a bilateral trade agree- ment. Merchandise imports must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department or one of the authorized banks (imports from the other Central American coun- tries covered by the General Treaty for Economic Integration of Central America are exempt from this requirement); the Bank of Guatemala will issue foreign exchange licenses for import payments only against original bills of lading and invoices with statistical information consistent with the import registration. Except in the case of transactions below US$5,000 and imports made directly by authorized banks on behalf of importers with letters of credit or trade credits, a 25 percent guarantee deposit, to be made at the time of requesting foreign exchange, is required in the case of prepayments for imports. Deposits may be made in cash, bank guarantees, or government bonds, and are refund- able when the Bank of Guatemala has received from the importer a document issued by customs verifying the arrival of the merchandise. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Guatemala grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the applicable import duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are limits on payments for invisibles, as follows: Study abroad (I) purchases of foreign exchange for university study abroad are limited to US$1,000 for moving expenses and a monthly allowance of US$500 for room and board; no limit is applied on remittances for tuition expenses, while a monthly allowance of US$500 applies for technical courses and training; (2) remittances to dependents abroad are restricted to a monthly limit of US$500 but not exceeding US$1,250 a family; Travel abroad (3) foreign exchange allowances for nonbusiness travel abroad are limited for each person to US$100 a day and US$2,000 a year (US$50 a day and US$1,000 a year for children under 12 years); for nonbusiness travel to other Central American countries, the limits are the same as those applied for travel abroad, except that only 50 percent of those limits for adult travelers outside the region can be obtained in U .S. dollars (in all cases, the cost of air and land travel to foreign countries and the cost of using credit cards abroad must be settled in domestic currency); for all purchases of foreign ex- change a guarantee deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the exchange purchased is required, which is refunded on presentation of evidence showing the number of days spent abroad or, if appropriate, the sale of the unused ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amount to an authorized bank; (4) foreign exchange allowances for business travel abroad are limited to US$150 a day, with no ceiling applied on each trip or each year, provided that it can be established that the expenses are borne by the firm for which the trip is undertaken (the daily limit can be extended in special cases but not beyond US$200); (5) foreign exchange is authorized for medical treatment abroad provided that the need is substantiated; substantiation of the use of foreign exchange must be submitted within 30 days of the individual's return to Guatemala; and (6) remittances abroad by foreign workers are limited to one third or two thirds of their salaries, within monthly limits of Q 500 or Q 1,250 a recipient, depending upon whether the immediate family resides in Guatemala or abroad; there is a monthly limit of Q 1,500 on emigrating foreigners wishing to transfer their severance pay and the proceeds from the sale of their property in Guatemala. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 13 percent. Receipts from invisibles accruing to residents must be declared and sold to the Bank of Guatemala or to an authorized private commercial bank. Exempted from this requirement are foreign exchange earnings of foreign nationals from their investments or other operations abroad while these earnings are maintained outside Guatemala. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must obtain export licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export licenses is contin- gent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala within three months of the date of issuance (six months for exports to the other Central American countries). Capital All existing foreign assets held abroad by Guatemalan residents and all obligations to foreigners must be registered with the Bank of Guatemala; such registration is a precondition for authorizing remittances of divi- dends, profits, interest, and amortization. Any other outward capital transfer is prohibited. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the con- struction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Invest- ment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. GUATEMALA Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments November 14. The Government introduced import quotas for most import items and made them subject to prior licensing. The quotas were based on actual imports in 1981 and were divided into six groups, as follows: Group 1 (143 products, including food products, medicine, agricultural implements, diesel fuel, lubri- cants, propane, medical instruments, and basic agricul- tural products.) Imports would be allowed up to 100 percent of their 1981 import values. Group 2 (6 products, including crude oil, gasoline, and newsprint.) Imports would be allowed up to 90 percent of their 1981 import values. Group 3 (235 products, including basic industrial products, excluding those belonging to Group 4, food products, industrial spare parts, trucks and frames, petroleum derivatives, paper, books, and printing equip- ment.) Imports would be allowed up to 70 percent of their 1981 import values. Group 4 (311 products, including raw materials for the textile and mechanical industries, construction mate- rials, and raw materials for the food industry.) Imports would be allowed up to 50 percent of their 1981 import values. Group 5 (385 products, including electrical equip- ment, metal tools and equipment, and various products for domestic use.) Imports would be allowed up to 30 percent of their 1981 import values. Group 6 (708 products, including other food products, cars, wood and wood products, and jewelry.) Imports would be allowed up to 20 percent of their 1981 import values. The following products were excluded from the import quotas in the above-mentioned classification: goods in transit, those with values of less than Q 100, commercial samples, imports of products for the petro- leum industry, reimports, and all imports that did not require official foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles November 16. The annual foreign exchange allocation for residents traveling abroad was reduced from US$6,000 to US$2,000, and the guarantee deposit requirement against foreign exchange purchases for purposes of foreign travel was set at 50 percent of all such purchases. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Syli, which is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies1 quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA franc and the Mali franc result from the relationship between these currencies and the French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies2 are deter- mined in accordance with the appropriate cross rates in international markets. Application of the official ex- change rate is limited for the time being to exchange transactions effected through the official channel; all other exchange transactions are effected through a free parallel market. This arrangement involves a multiple currency practice. Transactions under the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the People's Republic of China are settled in renminbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per renminbi 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require ap- proval by the Central Exchange Bureau of the Central Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPOR- TEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.3 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Set- tlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresi- dent Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Principally the Saudi Arabian riyal. 3 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all but the agreement with China are inoperative. 224 nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports and Import Payments All imports (as well as exports) are centralized at the level of IMPORTEX. A specified list of goods can be imported only through the official channel by the public sector, namely, educational and pharmaceutical sup- plies, fue l, cement, steel, sugar, cooking oil, rice, flour, and spare parts or raw materials for the state enterprises. The import licenses are of two types: "licenses with settlement" and "licenses without settlement" (i.e., imports are financed by the importers' own foreign exchange). The first type of license is mainly for those imports of the public enterprises and ministries that are part of the import program, while the second type of license is for the private sector imports. Regarding the public sector, an annual program of imports is presented by each public enterprise and forwarded to the respective ministry, which aggregates its overall import needs before forwarding them to IMPORTEX. These requests are discussed by an interministerial committee (commission de controle des licenses), which has the ultimate authority to decide on the final composition of imports; on this basis, annual import quotas are allocated to each ministry. If one ministry's requirements should exceed its quota, it would have to make a special request to the interministerial committee; the determining criterion in such cases is the urgency of the need. In any case, any extra amount allowed beyond the original quota would normally be deducted from the quota for the following year. The execution of the import program is closely monitored to ensure that actual imports comply with the authorities' imports. Should the foreign exchange situa- tion permit, an annual program could be expanded in favor of necessities. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports, including most private sector im- ports, are effected outside the import program. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and covers mainly imports by two "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Com- pany and the Guinea Bauxite Company), the foreign embassies, imports made directly for the execution of the Five-Year Plan, and imports by private traders not involving purchase of foreign exchange through the official market (sans reglement financier). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed-economy companies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require the authorization of the Central Exchange Bureau. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no official exchange allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 16,351 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 22,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Indi- vidual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case; for officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, that is, GS 2,500 a month, but students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 percent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad through the official market; the percentage actually permitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enter- prise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad through the official market 40 percent of their net monthly salaries, and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 percent of their net monthly salaries on the same basis. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all public sector exports except those of the "mixed- economy companies." All exports require individual licenses in order to (1) assure the implementation of the export program (par- ticularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (3) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) prevent the export of capital. For the following commodities, special authori- GUINEA zation from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the pro- ceeds immediately after they are collected. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating require- ments, and to service their external debt. For diamond producers, there is an auction arrangement operated by the Central Bank, under which producers are paid 60 percent of proceeds in foreign currency and the remain- der is converted at the official exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles are required to be surrendered. The import of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must, in principle, be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re- export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction may not be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers through the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Under a special investment law passed in August 1977, freedom of movement and other privileges are granted to funds remitted and placed in Guinean banks by nonresident Guineans. In accordance with the terms of the Investment Law of February 1, 1980, small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 25 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years. Exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long- term investments of particular importance to the economy. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA There are arrears on external payments, mostly in respect of debt service payments. Gold Guinea has four issues of commemorative gold coin, which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement December 1. In the context of an overall adjustment program that was formally adopted on December 1, 1982, a system was instituted under which application of the official exchange rate would be limited for the time being to exchange transactions effected through the official channel; all other exchange transactions would be effected through a free parallel market. The ar- rangement involved a multiple currency practice. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement Payments for Invisibles The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso, which is pegged to the SDR at PG 44 = SDR 1. The authorities maintain the rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso within margins of 2.25 percent of the fixed relationship between the peso and the SDR, that is, between maximum and minimum rates of PG 44.99 and PG 43.01, respectively, per SDR 1. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within limits of 1.8 percent of the SDR rates for these currencies. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 39.1693 and PG 40.6052, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings shall be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Algeria. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts on the basis of a monthly ceiling fixed by the central bank and are valid for the period of the import transaction. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank within 15 days. Only importers registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and value (c . i .f. and f .o .b .) of the product imported, and a separate license is required for each product. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided within 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foodstuffs, such as rice and sugar, are state monopolies. Import licenses are issued in line with availability of foreign exchange. Only those import operations consid- ered urgent or essential are permitted. All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. Foreign exchange allocations for many payments for invisibles, including those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension pay- ments are authorized in accordance with specific criteria. Although no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. Airline companies may transfer in foreign exchange the difference between their payments and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to PG 30,000 a trip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 3,500 in each of the following months (PG 5,000 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to PG 20,000. Remittances to close relatives (parents and children) living abroad are per- mitted up to PG 2,500 a month. Foreign travelers may take out any remaining foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered w i th the Ministry of Commerce and Handi- crafts may obtain export licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Exports of groundnuts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported only by the Government include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, f ish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet flooring. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 percent. Most exports are also subject to export taxes, which range from 3 percent for firewood to 15 percent for crocodile hides, with most products in the 9-10 percent range. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigration are authorized by the "transitory norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance, Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G$3.00 = US$1. Movements in the external value of the Guyana dollar are determined by the movement in the rates of selected currencies in a composite basket. The initial currencies selected for the basket are the U .S. dollar, the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, and the Japanese yen. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.9981 and G$3.0131, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at different rates on the purchase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection is respon- sible for issuing import and export licenses, but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all authorized pay- ments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdraw- als by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these ac- counts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pend- ing applications for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate but no exchange rate guarantee. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or that transit South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are also prohibited from all sources. Permissible imports are sub- ject to individual licensing, but the following commodi- ties are exempted: passenger's baggage, household effects and personal effects, bona fide patterns and sam- ples that have a stipulated f .o .b. value, parcel post items of a certain value imported by individuals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. In addition, from May 1, 1982 a manufacturer is permitted to import spare parts up to c . i .f. value of G$5,000 and any items of equipment or machinery up to c . i .f. value of G$10,000 without a need to apply for an import license, provided that such a manufacturer does not require any foreign exchange from Guyana to pay for imports. An import license is granted on a relatively free but priority basis as follows: (1) raw materials for the manufacture of essential items, (2) essential items, (3) raw materials for manufacturers serving the export markets and the essential services in industry, (4) equipment and materials for sawmills in the timber industry, (5) commodities for hatcheries, (6) spare parts, (7) petroleum products, (8) importation by international organizations and diplomatic personnel, and (9) drugs. However, an application for an import license will not normally be approved for commodities when similar ones are produced locally and at reasonable levels to supply domestic needs or sustain exportation. Public sector corporations have a monopoly over the importation of specified commodities from all sources. Import licenses are issued in respect of certain specified commodities only to that government corporation which has been identified to procure them centrally. When the responsibility of handling imports of any commodity has 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA been given to a single government agency with a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agen- cies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. A similar course of action is adopted when standardization of commodities is involved. As a general rule, licenses are issued for the procurement of suppliers for the retail and distributive sectors of the economy, only to government corporations, where responsibility is to order on a national, rather than a local basis. Licenses are not normally made available to private sector concerns or individuals for goods to be disposed of by retail trade, other than to dealers in spare parts. Import licenses continue to be approved for specialized require- ments of government and private concerns connected with sugar, bauxite, rice, timber, and manufacturing industries, as the case may be. There are no import quotas, but the granting of import licenses is subject in large measure to the availability of foreign exchange. All applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. There has been an accumulation of commercial arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require ap- proval, which, except for tourist travel, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is in- volved, but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is G$200 a person and is not cumulative. The allocation for education depends on each circumstance and is granted in terms of foreign currency needs. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of G$60 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may, within one month of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and alumina only by the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. 230 Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remitted, and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital incre- ments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other curren- cies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a family unit; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a family unit at the time of emigration and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the financing of specific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply do- mestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold and industrial users, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$600, C$400, and G$200, for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1982 Payments for Invisibles January 28. Foreign exchange allowances for cash gifts were discontinued. (Previously, a resident 18 years or over was allowed to remit abroad up to G$50 once a year.) Imports and Import Payments May 1. It was announced that a manufacturer could import spare parts up to a c . i . f. value of G$5,000 and any item of equipment or machinery up to a c . i . f. value of G$l0,000 without the need for an import license, provided that such transactions did not require the use of foreign exchange from Guyana. GUYANA 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G 5 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Sales of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 percent. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) and exchange transactions are imple- mented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. The tax code provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank established in Haiti. Aside from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain consumer goods is regulated by an order of November 3, 1982. Import licenses are required for, inter alia, certain foodstuffs, certain foot- wear, cotton textiles, paints, specified household goods, and iron rods. The importation of used automobiles is subject to the requirement that the vehicle is at most five years old and has been owned by the importer for a minimum of two years. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of specified types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. The do- mestic marketing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. A consular fee of 2 percent is payable on all imports in the country of origin except for materials required by certain export industries. A unified and simplified system of import tariffs came into effect in May 1981. Importers pay a sales tax of 7 percent on the amount of their imports. There are arrears on import payments. Exports and Export Proceeds Exportable commodities require prior authorization from the Office de Promotion des Denrees Exportables. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be 232 withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Aromatic Oils. Foreign exchange proceeds from major export commodities (coffee, essential oils, meat, and other agricultural goods) must be surrendered. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds, and the banks are to advise the central bank of transactions pertaining to the major export commodities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of private transfers must be surrendered through the central bank. Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. There are some arrears in respect of debt service payments. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decrees of March 13, 1963 and September 9, 1969 and requires prior government approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresi- dents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coin, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments November 3. A new law (dated September 19, 1982) came into force, imposing a sales tax of 7 percent on all imports, with minor exceptions. November 3. A decree was issued lifting the import prohibitions imposed on April 9, 1981, and modifying the import tariffs on a number of products. HAITI Novembers. An order was issued extending the list of items subject to import licensing. November 8. Export industries involved in the assem- bly of imP°rt«» P"* or materials on a contract basis were ^mpted from the payment of the consular fee of 2 Percent on such lmP°rts- 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respectively, per US$1. Bank notes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates with a 1 percent commission and are sold at parity rates. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Pay- ments among member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)1 in respect of trade and invisibles are settled every six months in the domestic currency of the payer through the Central American Clearing House. If the outstanding balance is in excess of US$12 million, immediate settlement is required. There are monthly quotas on the amount of lempira notes and coins that can be purchased by the central banks of other CACM countries,2 similar to those imposed by these countries on the purchases of their currencies by the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for all items and are issued by the External Financing Department of the Central Bank. Imports are categorized according to those that must be paid for in cash (mainly nonessential imports) and those that can be financed with credit. The purpose of the classification is to discourage the import of luxury goods by denying them foreign credit and limiting their access to domestic credit by setting portfolio ceilings. A priority scheme for the approval of import permits has been established on a temporary basis, with the intention of further restraining the demand for nonessential im- ports. The scheme is intended to replace a similar one that was applied at the stage of foreign exchange authorization. Imports may be checked for appropriate pricing; import prepayments are subject to certain re- strictions on the means of settlement. As a restraint on 'Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. 2Costa Rica was exempt from the quota. 234 import prepayment, central bank authorization is re- quired when payments for imports by bank drafts exceed US$2,500. Depending on the foreign exchange situa- tion, the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank may subject the allocation of foreign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of policy- determined priorities.3 A 100 percent guarantee deposit is required against all requests to open sight letters of credit for import payments; the deposits are held with commercial banks.4 Importation of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IHMA). Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants duty exoner- ations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs du ty. Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 35 percent, under bilateral trade agreement. Some goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 percent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 percent of the f .o .b. value. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes. Exports and Export Proceeds Any export with a value exceeding US$1,000 requires a license and is subject to prior authorization of the External Financing Department of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange proceeds must either be surrendered to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions, or be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commer- cial banks. The withdrawal of dollar-denominated de- posits is subject to compliance with the procedures on the use of foreign exchange. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made within 90 days following the negotiation of export documents. The Central Bank is authorized to require banks to sell to it foreign exchange holdings in excess of established limits. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute (!HCAFE), and exports of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA). Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IHMA), 3 The Central Bank is authorized to allocate foreign exchange in accordance w i th the following priorities: external financial payments, essential consumer items, health products, educational materials, fuel and lubricants, raw materials, agricultural and industrial inputs, machinery, equipment, and spare parts, and other goods and services. 4Prior to May 1982, when this practice was introduced, the requirement had already been put in operation by a number of local commercial banks whose foreign correspondents had been requiring of them an equivalent deposit of foreign currency at the time that the letter of credit was confirmed. Since local branches of foreign banks were not subject to the same requirement, the Central Bank decided to generalize the practice in order to equalize the position of all commercial banks w i th respect to their opportunities for financing foreign trade. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and lumber exports are channeled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation (CoHDEFOR). There is an export tax on cattle, meat, and sugar, and a general export du ty of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, and minerals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are either subject to a surrender requirement or must be held as dollar- denominated deposits with commercial banks. All pur- chases of foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require prior approval of the Central Bank. For statistical purposes, however, all buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating how such funds will be used. W i th in this l im i t, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and coins in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes by travelers. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and approval by the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mu tual fund s, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Council (CONSUPLANE), and the Central Bank is required for the pub l ic sector to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. External debt contracts must be registered w i th the Central Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the servicing of only du ly registered and approved external debt. The contracting of external f inanc ing must conform with specified priorities. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; the reserve requirement for certificates of HONDURAS deposit of US$25,000 and above is 20 percent, and 15 percent for savings deposits in foreign currency with savings and loan associations. Foreign exchange hold- ings in excess of specified limits may be required to be sold by the banks to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes during 1982 Prescription of Currency January 27. Monthly quotas were established on the amount of lempira notes and coins that could be purchased by the central banks of other CACM countries. Imports and Import Payments May 15. A guarantee deposit requirement equivalent to 100 percent of transaction value was introduced for all requests to open sight import letters of credit at the commercial banks. October 15. A local counterpart deposit requirement at the Central Bank equivalent to 100 percent of transaction value was instituted for outstanding arrears of import payments. Exports and Export Proceeds May 15. The requirement of export licenses for all exports was modified to apply only to individual export transactions in excess of US$1,000. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions in Hong Kong, and exchange rates for the Hong Kong dollar are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The authorities intervene only when necessary in order to smooth out exceptional fluctuations in exchange rates so as to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1982 the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, was HK$5.495 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from licensing control, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, and textiles that are subject to licensing control for surveillance reasons. Imports of rice are subject to a quota system operated by the Department of Trade. With a few exceptions a trade declaration must be lodged with that Department within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported from Hong Kong. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by that Department. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. 1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a small number of items to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to licensing control because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified coun- tries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license is required before any company, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do banking business in Hong Kong. Subject to certain conditions, an overseas bank can establish a representa- tive office in Hong Kong and may also register a subsidiary as a deposit-taking company. A deposit- taking company may not, however, conduct banking business or use the word "bank" in its title. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1982 Capital February 25. Interest earnings on foreign currency deposits in Hong Kong were exempted from the with- holding tax hitherto levied at 15 percent. (In addition, the withholding tax in respect of deposits in Hong Kong dollars was reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent.) 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the forint against currencies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of nine currencies;2 the weights are adjusted annually and reflect the currency composition of Hungary's export receipts from the nonruble currency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, on the basis notably of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. Exchange rates are quoted by the National Bank of Hungary for 19 convertible currencies3 and the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buying and selling rates are set with a spread of V\o of 1 percent around the middle rate for each currency.4 New rates are quoted once a week (on Tuesday) and, in the case of the currencies included in the basket, are based on the average exchange rates between these currencies in international markets during the previous five working days. Rates for other curren- cies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. The exchange rate of the forint against individual currencies need not be changed if the adjust- ment relative to the previous quotation would be less than l/2 of 1 percent and if cumulative changes in the value of the forint relative to the basket would not exceed 1 percent during the calendar year. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U .S. dollars on December 31, 1982 were Ft 39.5702 and Ft 39.6494, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Although there are no official forward quotations, the National Bank is prepared to buy currencies forward for exports and related transactions. Rates are set on a case- by-case basis and reflect forward quotations in interna- tional markets. The largest portion of Hungary's trade and financial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is 1 The member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. 2Austrian schillings, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Each of these currencies accounts for at least 1 percent of export receipts. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In addition to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and traveler's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas, Yugoslav dinars, and Turkish liras. 4The spread of 0.2 percent between buying and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For traveler's checks and bank notes, a 6 percent spread is maintained between buying and selling rates. settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) and with Al- bania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in clearing rubles. Official exchange rates for the transfer- able ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted weekly by the National Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of December 1982 the buying and selling rates for the forint against the transferable ruble were Ft 25.9740 and Ft 26.0260, respectively; the same rates applied to the clearing ruble. The National Bank also quotes rates of exchange for the forint against the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements, for example, international travel, expenses of diplomatic representation, scholarships,5 and are based on multilateral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance. Related functions are exercised by the Minister through the National Bank, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions, such as the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank and the Central Corporation of Banking Companies. The Na- tional Bank may entrust other agencies, such as banking institutions and travel agencies, with the performance of specified tasks. The Central European International Bank Ltd., established jointly by the National Bank and Western European and Japanese interests, is exempt from Hungarian foreign exchange regulations and re- strictions in respect of authorized activities. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. In practice, this means that commercial exports and imports may be effected only by economic enterprises authorized for this purpose. Organizations that are not authorized to con- duct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through authorized organizations. At the end of Decem- ber 1982 there were 190 enterprises authorized to engage in foreign trade, of which 32 were specialized foreign trade organizations;6 the rest consisted of industrial enterprises, state farms, cooperatives, and domestic trading concerns. Authorization to enter foreign trade may be either general or specific, referring in the latter case to the import and export activities of a producing enterprise for own account or to a single transaction or contract. 5 A commission of 3 percent applies to purchases from tourists of bank notes in the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 6In addition, there were nine enterprises specializing in the represen- tation of foreign enterprises. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hungary has multilateral and bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.7 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may main- tain convertible currency accounts at the National Bank, at certain designated offices of the National Savings Bank, and at the Foreign Trade Bank; only relatively large amounts may be placed at the National Bank. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in international markets. Interest rates on nonresident deposits at the National Savings Bank at the end of December 1982 ranged from 6 percent to 13.5 percent a year, depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit and reflecting the financial market situation.8 No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Unless specifically exempted, payments in forints to nonresidents must be deposited in blocked forint ac- counts at certain designated offices of the National Savings Bank. Approval authority for withdrawals from blocked forint accounts has been delegated to the National Savings Bank for specified uses, e.g., living expenses while traveling in Hungary, medical expenses, and certain personal and family related expenses; ap- proval may be obtained on the basis of a verbal declaration. Requests for approval for other uses must be referred to the National Bank. All requests for rea- sonable purposes are granted. In general, no interest is paid on these accounts. Residents may also open accounts at designated offices of the National Savings Bank either in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign curren- cies. Foreign exchange earned from creative, inventive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, composers, and performing artists), honoraria, prizes 7 At the end of December 1982 Hungary had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, Finland, Islamic Republic of Iran, Mali, Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam. Hungary also had trade agreements with bilateral payments features for certain commodities with Afghanistan, Bangla- desh, and Pakistan. Except for Albania, People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U.S. dollars. Settlements with the People's Republic of China were in clearing Swiss francs, and with Albania, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam in clearing rubles. The agreement w i th Mali has been inoperative. 8 There were changes in these rates during the first quarter of 1983; by mid-April 1983, the rates were in the range of 3.5-17.75 percent a year. 238 and awards, and specified fees may be deposited in these accounts. Convertible currency income or assets from these sources may be deposited in these accounts up to the extent of the first Ft 15,000 and 25 percent of the excess a year (5 percent in the case of inventors' fees and royalties to authors, composers and performing artists from foreign sales of products, books, or musical work). No limits apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of countries accounting in rubles. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem payments, wages and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholarships, and artistic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convertible and CMEA currencies. No authorization is required for the use of accounts of residents in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign currencies. Withdrawals of convertible currency balances can be made in any convertible or CMEA currency, in Yugoslav dinars, or in forint. CMEA balances can only be withdrawn in a CMEA currency or in forint. The deposits may be used for foreign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Consumex and the Intertourist shops or directly from abroad. These accounts earn the same rate of interest as savings deposits in forint, and the resulting proceeds are payable in foreign currency.9 Residents can also hold another category of accounts called the BC foreign currency accounts. Deposits in these accounts are limited to transfers from nonresidents to residents for the purpose of financing residents' expenses while traveling abroad. Such deposits can be used in lieu of a nonresident's affidavit in applying for a visitor's travel visa (see below). Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requirement. Licenses are issued by the Licensing Department of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. No further license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. Import licenses may be global or individual and, unless otherwise specified, are valid until the end of the calendar year for which they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place with any country for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used primarily for bulk imports of items, such as fertilizer and steel products, which are spread over the course of the year. Individual licenses permit transactions to take place only as specified. A fee equivalent to 2 percent of the forint value of licensed imports settled in convertible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import duties and related customs levies upon customs clearance. An advance import deposit scheme introduced in 1967 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. 9 Since January 1, 1983, deposits of more than one-year maturity earn interest at rates prevailing on international markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Separately, a forint cover requirement applies to both imports and investment financing. In the case of imports, the importer is required to deposit the forint equivalent of the value of the letter of credit in a blocked non-interest- bearing account at the National Bank when opening a letter of credit. When importing on behalf of other end- users, foreign trade organizations must obtain payment from the end-user 15 days before the due date for payment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or for imports against documents or acceptance, to the date of payment. In the case of investment financing, a letter from the National Bank confirming that financing for the project has been secured in fu ll is required before spending can be initiated. The related financing is frozen in a non-interest-bearing account at the time the letter is issued by the National Bank. In the case of imported capital goods, the letter must be submitted to the licensing authority before the import license is issued. Before September 1982, apart from the import of consumer goods from the convertible currency area, the licensing of imports was automatic and was used essentially for the purpose of ensur ing that on ly author- ized enterprises engaged in in terna t ional trade. Begin- n ing in September 1982, imports of several pr imary products were made subject to quo tas, and imports of component parts became subject to a 20 percent sur- charge. In add i t ion, the regime for imports from the convertible currency area has been app l ied more restric- t iv e ly, as all licenses were made subject to i n d i v i d u al approval on the basis of the a v a i l a b i l i ty of fore ign exchange .10 Imports of consumer goods from the con- vertible currency area are sub ject to a global quo ta, the dollar va lue of wh ich is pub l i shed a n n u a l ly in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The va lue of the quo ta for 1982 was set at US$106 m i l l i o n .1' Licenses aga inst the quo ta are granted on an order-of-arrival basis, and unused allocations are not au toma t ica l ly added to the quo ta for the next year. Licenses are gene ra l ly applied for by the enterprises authorized to engage in foreign trade. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post ver if ica t ion of compliance w i th the terms of the l icense is made by the foreign exchange authority tw ice a year. Certain imports are prohibited for san i tary, secu r i ty, and other non- economic reasons. Hungary has been a member of the GATT since 1973. As part of the Mu l t i la te ral Trade Nego t ia t ions (MTN ), the weighted average tariff level applied on a most- favored-nation basis is to be reduced from 17 .2 percent in 1979 to 10.7 percent in 1987. Imports from deve l- oping countries enjoy preferen t ial ta r i ff t rea tmen t. Du ty HUNGARY concessions or exemptions may be granted in specified cases. Exemptions from customs duties apply to imports from member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, except for imports effected outside the framework of the annual bilateral trade agreements w i th these countries. These imports, however, are subject to special import turnover taxes aimed at equa l iz ing the prices of such imports and prices in the domestic market. In general, re turn ing Hungarian travelers may import, free of customs d u t y, goods for noncommercial use up to a va lue of Ft 5,000. Re tu rn ing residents may import, free of customs d u t y, goods up to a va lue equivalent to 40 percent of the ir earnings wh i le stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Certain exports are pro- h ib i ted for san i ta ry, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Indirect taxes on exports settled in convertible currencies are refunded at a rate equ iva lent to 6 percent of v a lu e. In add i t ion, an export subs idy applies to exports of ag r icu l tu ral products and processed foods settled in conver t ib le currenc ies, amoun t ing to not more than 8 percent of the va lue of the agr icu l tural raw ma te r ial content of these exports. The tax refund and the sub s idy are ca lcu la ted on the basis of the customs invo ice v a l u e. Most trade w i th member countries of the CMEA, A l b a n i a, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, is conduc ted under b i la te ral agreements nego- t ia ted a n n u a l ly w i t h in the f ramewo rk of f ive-year b i la- teral trade and p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts. Trade w i t h in th is f ramewo rk takes place at prices f ixed in the annual b i l a t e r al ag reemen ts, on the bas is of quotas representing d e l iv e ry o b l i g a t i o n s, w i th de te rm ined cond i t ions of d e l iv e ry. Sub s id ies may be pa id to compensate expor t ing enterprises for losses incurred if such exports are requ i red for the f u l f i l l m e nt of the agreements' ob l ig a t ion s. All fo re ign assets and currenc ies mu st be declared and a ll fo re ign exchange assets m u st be surrendered, un less o the rw ise exemp ted. Dec la ra t ion mu st be made w i t h in e ight days, but the leng th of t ime a l lowed for repa t r ia t ion depends on the na tu re of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is gene ra l ly exempt from the ob l iga t ion to surren- der its fo re ign exchange assets to the N a t i o n al B a n k. The N a t i o n al Sav ings Bank and the General B a n k i ng and Trust Company are exempt from the surrender requ i re- m ent in ce r ta in cases; spec i f ic exemp t ions for i n d i v i d u a ls are granted in respect of g i f ts received w h i le t r av e l ing and used to cover l i v i ng and shopping expenses w h i le abroad, as we ll as for wages and salaries earned w h i le wo rk ing abroad w i th o f f i c i al pe rm i s s ion, or from schol- arsh ips received from non res iden ts. Receipts of fore ign currency not exceed ing Ft 2,000 (in bank notes on ly) a person are also gene ra l ly exemp ted from the surrender r equ i r em en t. l ( )F rom Janua ry 1, 1983. large and f r equ ent importers h ave been exemp ted, up to specified qu a r t e r ly l i m i t s, from the r e q u i r em e nt for approval of i n d i v i d u al l icenses. The ex emp t ion does not app ly to imports of capital goods. "The quo ta for 1983 has been set at US$95 m i l l i o n. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es re la ted to me rchand ise trans- ac t ions, i n c l u d i ng t ran spo r ta t ion and adve r t i s ing, are 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or individual authori- zation by either the Ministry of Finance or other competent authority. Foreign exchange for related pay- ments is made available automatically once the transac- tion has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain general authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authoriza- tion up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance, the chief control administra- tion of the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank. Permission for travel to countries outside the CMEA area is granted only upon evidence of means of support abroad. This requirement can be met in one of three ways: (1) if living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents, in which case an affidavit from the nonresident or the availability of sufficient funds in a resident BC account at Touring, Money Changing, Traveling and Shipping Co., Inc. (IBUSZ) is required; (2) if living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds in a convertible currency account or from a travel allowance obtained from the National Bank; or (3) if traveling with an authorized tourist group. Travelers under the first category are labeled "visitors," while travelers under the latter two categories are labeled "tourists." Permission for private travel may be obtained once a calendar year. Authorized tourist offices obtain annual foreign exchange allocations for the purpose of granting allowances to tourist groups. Travel allowances from the National Bank may be obtained once every third year. Individual allowances amount to Ft 13,200 a passport holder plus Ft 2,000 a child for children of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport.12 Small amounts may also be granted on a case-by-case basis in excess of the basic allowance for personal reasons, for example, if certain additional transport must be paid for abroad. In general, for "tourists" and "visitors," transportation expenses can be settled in forint for Hungarian carriers or carriers participating in a pooling agreement of which the domestic carrier is a member, or carriers which are part of the CMEA agreement; the same regulations apply to visitors when traveling in CMEA countries in Europe or to tourists when traveling in Europe by train. In the case of tourists, a supplementary travel allowance may be obtained for travel by car to cover gasoline expenses up to a quota fixed for each country. Visitors may purchase foreign currencies up to Ft 1,800. For official and business travel, separate allowances are established by the Ministry of Finance for living expenses and accommodation. Limits for living ex- penses are applied strictly, while accommodation allow- ances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual rea- sonable costs. Compliance with these limits is adminis- tered by the enterprises or institutions themselves within their allocated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance, the chief control administration of the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank. No minimum spending or conversion requirement applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, except in the case of visitors from Yugoslavia, who are required to convert the equivalent of Ft 760 a trip (Ft 380 for residents of the border area) when entering Hungary other than for business purposes. For travel between Hungary and Poland and between Hungary and Czecho- slovakia travelers are required to have in their possession specific minimum amounts of the currency of their country of destination. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license of the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. In addition, nonresidents may not take out of the country articles exceeding the value of Ft 3,00013 (up to Ft 1,000 an article). Within the same overall limits, nonresidents from countries with which an agreement is in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the country gifts up to Ft 300 (see footnote 13) a person and purchase articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certification of the nonresident's foreign exchange authority. However, nonresidents may take out freely articles bought in shops designated for sales in convertible currencies. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 200 a person, in denominations not exceeding Ft 50. Nonresi- dents may similarly bring into or take out of the country Ft 100 a person, in coins only. Limits of Ft 50 a person (only in coins in the case of nonresidents) apply to both residents and nonresidents, not to exceed Ft 200 a month, in the case of border-zone traffic. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: residents visiting CMEA countries are entitled to an annual allowance of Ft 15,000. Except for a portion of the travel allowance (equivalent to the above-mentioned Ft 200) that may be taken out of the country in forint and converted at the travel destination, under multilateral agreement travelers to CMEA coun- tries can acquire the currency of the country of destina- tion in amounts determined by the regulations of that country. For the remainder of their allowances travelers 12 Beginning April 8, 1983, the allowances have been increased to Ft 13,600 a passport holder and Ft 2,100 a child. 1 3In border traffic, the value may not exceed Ft 200 a month unless otherwise authorized under international agreement. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must acquire traveler's checks denominated in the currency of the country of destination. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the National Bank for the relevant currency. A 4.5 percent commission is applied at the time of conversion. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of forint acquired by CMEA tourists into their own national currency is allowed. Tourists from the convertible currency area can reconvert up to the equivalent of US$100, provided that the reconversion is not for more than half of the amount originally converted into forint. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those em- ployed in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Capital All foreign borrowing, excluding foreign borrowing on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, requires the approval of the National Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, for example, when credits on favorable terms are guaranteed by the government of the exporter or when bankers' accept- ances are provided on favorable terms. The requirements of the economy for foreign credit are met through direct foreign borrowing by the National Bank; the aim is to prevent Hungarian enterprises from circumventing the regulations of domestic credit policy by means of foreign resources. Directives for extending short-term commercial cred- its in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the National Bank. No license from the foreign exchange authority is required for commercial credits in com- pliance with the directives. Medium-term and long-term credits for the export of investment goods may be extended by exporting enterprises with the authorization of the Minister of Foreign Trade. Negotiable export documents are discounted by the National Bank. These credits are refinanced by the National Bank from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are not subject to several regulations. Foreign participation is limited in general to 49 percent; but a higher proportion may be allowed in the banking and service sectors. In other sectors, foreign majority requires special permission of the Minister of Finance. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as part of foreign investment. HUNGARY Tax benefits may be granted by the Minister of Finance. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, in the case of liquidation of the joint venture, of the invested capital. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the National Bank, covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungarian banking institutions, cov- ering the fulfillment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organiza- tions, either by establishing subsidiaries or affiliates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the head of the competent sectoral authority. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 400, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Gifts (movable property) from nonresidents in excess of Ft 10,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hun- gary, except in the form of inheritance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be author- ized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the control of the Central Corporation of Banking Companies. Emigrants may take out of the country up to Ft 30,000 an adult and Ft 15,000 a child, silver objects weighing at most 1 kilogram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident blocked forint account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the National Bank and in concurrence with the competent authority in the case of industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted prior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement July 13. The forint was depreciated by 7 percent against its basket of currencies. Travel allowances for residents traveling to countries outside the CMEA area were increased accordingly in local currency terms. November 30. The forint was depreciated by 3 percent against its basket of currencies. (A further depreciation of 1 percent on the same basis was effected on Decem- ber 7, 1982.) 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Imports and Exports April 1. Waivers ceased to be granted in respect of the forint cover on imports. (Such waivers had previously been liberally granted.) The extension of short-term credit by the National Bank to finance the borrowed portion of the forint cover was also made more restrictive. September 1. Imports of several primary products were made subject to quantitative restrictions, while imports of component parts became subject to a 20 percent surcharge. Imports subject to these restrictions amounted to US$1.5 billion in 1981, equivalent to 30 percent of imports from outside the ruble area. In addition, all import licenses were made subject to individual approval. December 10. The amount of foreign currency ex- empted from the surrender requirement was raised from Ft 400 a person to Ft 2,000 (in bank notes). Payments for Invisibles January 1. Travel allowances were raised to Ft 15,000 a person for travel to CMEA countries and to Ft 12,000 a passport holder and Ft 1,800 for a child of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport for "tourists" traveling to countries outside the CMEA area. At the same time, residents became automatically entitled to "tourist" allowances every third year for travel outside the CMEA area. Travel allowances for "visitors" to countries outside the CMEA area were raised to Ft 1,600 a person. April 20. Regulations pertaining to the amounts which nonresidents could take out of the country were changed to apply the limit of Ft 3,000 (see footnote 13) (up to Ft 1,000 an article) to articles either bought or received as gifts. Within the same overall limits, additional limits were introduced for nonresidents from countries with which an agreement was in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies (CMEA countries, except Cuba and Viet Nam): gifts up to Ft 300 a person (see footnote 13); and purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certification of the nonresident's foreign exchange authority. (Decree No. 11/1982 of the Minister of Finance.) May 15. By intergovernmental agreement, special regulations became effective in respect of travel between Hungary and Czechoslovakia requiring tourists to have in their possession specified m in imum amounts of the currency of their country of destination. The amounts set for Hungarian travelers to Czechoslovakia were Kcs 150 for the first day of their visit and Kcs 90 for each additional day (reduced to, respectively, Kcs 75 and Kds 45 for children of 10 to 15 years of age, with no allowance for younger children). July 13. Following a depreciation of the forint, the basic travel allowance was raised from Ft 12,000 to Ft 12,800 a person for travel to countries outside the CMEA area. December 1. Travel allowances for travel to countries outside the CMEA area were raised by 3 percent, to Ft 13,200 for "tourists" and by 6 percent, to Ft 1,800, for "visitors." Capital November 16. Regulations pertaining to foreign in- vestment were modified to allow participation by foreign companies in joint ventures in duty-free zones. Such joint ventures would remain Hungarian companies but would benefit from preferential treatment as regards, inter alia, customs clearance and duties, and wage, foreign exchange, and trade regulations (Joint Decree No. 62/1982 of the Minister of Finance and Minister of Foreign Trade). 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic K rona .l There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland and official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted from time to time; on December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates were ISK 16.600 and ISK 16.650, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies2 are based on the official rates for the U .S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange except for a tax of 10 percent levied on foreign exchange sales to residents for tourist travel. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export regulations and payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. Three commercial banks (the National Bank of Iceland, the Fisheries Bank, and the Agricultural Bank) are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses for the commodities subject to import control, and they administer rules on short-term foreign loans, including suppliers' credits, all on the basis of rules set by the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts are obtained in convertible currencies. Settlements (a) with countries whose curren- cies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar and (b) with many other countries, such as in Eastern and Southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U .S. dollars; with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with many other countries, in their respective currencies. 'On January 1, 1981 a new monetary un i t, called the krona, was established, equivalent to 100 old kronur. Bank notes and coins in old kronur continued to be legal tender until June 30, 1981, and the Central Bank of Iceland exchanged new currency for old un t il the end of 1982. 2Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona ac- counts w i th the authorized banks: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, payments for international trans- actions generally being made in U .S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.3 Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved payments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license from any country; most imports are liberalized. The main commodities on the restricted list are petroleum products, fishing vessels, certain agricultural goods, and specified industrial brooms and brushes. Certain imports, including fertiliz- ers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state-trading arrangements. Potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board. For imports from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 1 percent is charged as a license fee on the krona value of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 percent. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, but import documentation must be presented to one of the authorized banks to obtain foreign exchange. The goods w i ll not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the importer has acquired a permitted foreign credit, usually by accepting a bill of exchange issued by the seller. For imports that require an individual license, foreign ex- change is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Imports of furniture items are subject until 3 Residents who hold foreign currency wh ich they are not required to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts w i th Icelandic banks. Such accounts, denominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U .S. dollars, may be credited w i th authorized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND December 31, 1982 to an advance import deposit requirement amounting to 35 percent of the f .o.b. value; the deposits are held for 90 days in an interest-bearing blocked account. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to around two thirds of imports; the goods not listed are mainly building mate- rials, household appliances, motor vehicles for personal use, and nonessential goods. Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months is permitted in respect of some categories of goods and materials, for example, in connection with the irnpojt of industrial raw materials for which the prpduetioti process is lengthy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authorization issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import documentation on credit terms must be presented to one of the authorized banks prior to customs clearance. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between 7 percent and 37 percent depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, tractors, aiid public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goo4s» whether imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a special excise tax of 32 percent or 40 percent, ad valorem.4 Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for banking commis- sions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. The authorized banks effect payments freely on most transactions on the basis of bona fide dpcuments. There is an exchange license fee of 1 percent for all payments for invisibles. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$1,350 a person for each trip abroad (US$675 for each child). A tax of 10 percent is levied on foreign exchange sales for tourist travel as stated above. Applications for foreign exchange for chartering of ships, aircraft, and major repair of same, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance operations abroad are considered orj their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out ISK 1,200 in Icelandic bank notes and coin in denomina- tions not exceeding ISK 100. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts 4 Effective August 23, 1982 these taxes were raised from 24 percent and 30 percent, respectively, through February 28, 1983. 244 accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Most fish products are subject to export levies, which are returned to the fishing industry through special funds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities. Icelandic insurance com- panies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes and coin, up to ISK 1,200 in denominations not exceeding ISK 100. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation by nonresidents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 percent and is not allowed in the fishing, power, and mining industries; the case of the aluminum plant, which is wholly owned by nonresidents, is a special exception. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require indi- vidual approval. Direct investment abroad for the pur- pose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is subject to license. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are subject to license and are allowed up to an annual ceiling. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central Bank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements January 14. The krona was devalued by 12 percent on average against foreign currencies as measured by a trade- and payments-weighted exchange rate index. August 23. The krona was devalued by 14.3 percent on average against foreign currencies as measured by a trade- and payments-weighted exchange rate index. (The two occasions noted above were distinct from the market depreciation of the krona during the year.) Imports and Import Payments January 1. The 35 percent advance deposit on the f.o.b. value of furniture imports, abolished on Decem- ber 31, 1980, was reintroduced for one year. The deposit was required to be held in an interest-bearing blocked account for 90 days. January 21. Customs duties and special excise taxes were abolished on aircraft spare parts, equipment, accessories, and maintenance goods. February 1. Customs duty rates on imports of a range of household appliances and spare parts were reduced by one half. In addition, the special tax was abolished on certain appliances and spare parts. ICELAND March 1. A customs clearing charge of 1 percent of the c . i .f. value was introduced, with specified exemptions. March 1. It was announced that the special temporary levy on biscuits, confectionary, and chocolates, imposed in September 1980 and originally due to expire on March 1, 1982, would be phased out during the period March 1, 1982 to March 1, 1983. April 23. Customs duties and special excise taxes were abolished on various inputs for import-competing industries. April 30. The 24 percent special excise tax on computers and computer accessories was abolished. April 30. In a modification of the special import tax on automobiles, the tax was levied in seven categories ranging from zero to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value, depending on the weight of the vehicle and the engine capacity. The tax rate for motorcycles was set at 10 percent. August 23. The special excise tax on domestic and imported goods was raised for a period through Febru- ary 28, 1983, by increasing the lower rate from 24 percent to 32 percent and the higher rate from 30 percent to 40 percent. In addition, a number of commodities pre- viously exempted from this tax became subject to the lower rate of the tax. August 23. The rates of the special import tax on automobiles were raised by seven percentage points, ranging from 7 percent to 37 percent depending on weight and engine capacity. December 31. The import deposit scheme on furniture imports expired. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of December 1982 they were Rs 15.66 buying and Rs 15.74 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time, if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot ACU currencies and pounds sterling. The Reserve Bank fixes periodically (a) the floor on buying rates and the ceiling on selling rates for U .S. dollar notes; and (b) the "notional" exchange rates for the U .S. dollar and pound sterling at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with foreign banks is prohibited. On December 31, 1982 market rates for telegraphic transfers on New York were US$10.370 buying (clean) and US$10.265 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$10.38 buying spot and US$10.39 and US$10.40 buying forward (for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' delivery), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to autho- rized dealers by purchases of sterling for delivery on any 'Bang ladesh, Burma, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dol- lars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U .S .S .R. 246 day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for purchases of U .S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. In addition, the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Invest- ment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, indus- trial, and trading activities in India of companies incor- porated abroad, or with more than 40 percent nonresi- dent interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carry- ing out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 3) and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any permitted currency.4 Receipts from the External 4A ll remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and the People's Republic of China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity w i th exchange control regulations. All nontrade-related transactions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China continue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspon- dents in the People's Republic of China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek direction before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they also may effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remittances; remittances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. In addition, payments to and receipts from certain member countries of the ACU (see footnote 1) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may, but need not, be effected in Asian Monetary Units through the ACU. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepal - ese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the trans- feree accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group, and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Nonresident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; pro- ceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corpora- tion in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, pro- 5 However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. INDIA vided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses from a former employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresident accounts. Where the account holder is a foreign national, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were sold with the approval of the Reserve Bank. The special regulations covering funds lodged in National Defense Remittance Scheme Special Accounts were abolished in April 1979, and such accounts are now treated as ordinary nonresident ac- counts. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (a) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in India and booking of international passages, but transactions amounting to Rs 10,000 or more must be reported to the Reserve Bank on an ex post basis, and (b) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nation- ality or origin resident outside India or overseas com- panies and partnership firms which are owned at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disburse- ments in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Un it Trust of India, and transfers to other Nonresident (External) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his fam i ly and dependents, and its directors and employees in the case of corporate entities, but transfers of funds from an ind iv idual account to a s im i lar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Invest- ments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership f irms, etc., or in immovable property can be made w i th the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts de- nominated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Ind ian nationality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries and overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited w i th amounts received through normal banking channe ls, inc lud ing interest, which is free of income tax and wealth tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for wh ich debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to proh ib i t, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Ac t, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 was issued, which specified items subject to controls. Imports from Nam ib ia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of individual licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). The Import Policy for fiscal year 1982/83, wh ich came into effect on April 5, 1982, w i th its subsequent amendments, contains the regulations covering imports. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into four categories: (1) automatically permissible, (2) limited permissible, (3) nonpermissible, and (4) canalized. All items not in- cluded on these lists are freely available under open general license (OGL). Licenses for automatically per- missible items (automatic license) are issued auto- matically for a value equal to 110 percent of past consumption. Provided that he has exported at least 10 percent of his production of specified products in either of the two previous years, an actual user (industrial) may obtain an additional automatic license up to the same percentage. The actual user (industrial) may also import, 248 w i t h in the va lue of the automatic license, limited permissible items up to a value of Rs 100,000 and cancelled items up to Rs 25,000 for each item, provided that the total of all such items imported does not exceed 10 percent of the va lue of the license. Imports in 1982/83 could be made against the 1981/82 automatic license, provided that the license va lue is less than Rs 100,000. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of limited permissible items. All licenses to industry are issued against free foreign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned, while other listed goods may be imported under Open General License, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed pro- cedure. For 13 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, irrespective of whether the goods are manufactured in India or not. Under the Import Replenishment Scheme (REP), licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manufacturer exporters, export houses, and trading houses and are freely transferable. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain proportion of the va lue of exports, and these licenses are valid for the importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items necessary for the production of the particular export product. Subject to a value l im it on an individual item, manufacturer- exporters are allowed to import limited permissible items up to 20 percent of the value of the REP license, provided that the va lue of a single item does not exceed Rs 100,000. In addition, the REP licenses may be u t i l ized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license perm i ts, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances. An additional REP license equal to 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports is provided for imports of automatic permissible items. Small-scale un i ts are given especially liberal treatment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale industries may form export houses. Nonin- dustrial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and professional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not con- sumer goods) under OGL. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Use of suppliers' credit and other long-term import credit is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, but in special cases, for example, imports of machinery and capital goods where deposits have to be made w i th overseas manufacturers, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for ad- vance payment for a part of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cotton, raw jute, cement, cashew nu ts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises (i.e., "canalized"), the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bulk imports of certain raw mate- rials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center (IRMAC) facility. In addition to any applicable import du ty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 30 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump- sum exchange facilities after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, INDIA other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa, to the extent of 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the beginning of the previous calendar year. For determination of eligibil- ity, all foreign travel other than under the Foreign Travel Scheme is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined with visits for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business matters, hajj pilgrimage, and travel under the Neighborhood Travel Scheme. Residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent on a round-trip ticket, irrespec- tive of the carrier by which they travel. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for any person after satisfying themselves about the intending traveler's eligibility; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer after similar verification. Travel to Bangladesh, Burma, Malaysia, Maldives, Maur i t ius, Pakistan, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka is gov- erned by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme, under which residents of India visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of US$250 a person every two calendar years; this arrangement cannot be combined w i th the existing Foreign Travel Scheme. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad w i th or w i thout an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passen- gers, inc lud ing persons traveling between India and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their com- pany in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class passen- gers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East Afr ica, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling in and for purchase of initial equipment by students going to foreign univer- sities with full bursaries. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bhutan, Burma, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers, a few may be exported through established shippers, and some commodities are subject to export quotas.6 Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not permanently resident in India, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank of India through authorized dealers in the event of non- realization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also administers a scheme under which export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of export value in installments over a period exceeding six months. Some exports, including coffee, groundnuts, non- manufactured tobacco, raw cotton, raw wool, and oil cakes are subject to export duties. Some others, includ- ing footwear, roasted and salted peanuts, man-made fibers, live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods, receive cash compensatory support, import duty drawbacks, and exemptions. An Import Replenishment Scheme provides for imports of specified products against exports of certain products. Bona fide foreign tourists can freely 6The export of certain commodities, including sugar, raw ju te, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state-trading enterprises. 250 take out of India articles purchased with foreign ex- change or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange up to a value of Rs 20,000 a person; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family within the overall limit of Rs 20,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of motor scooters, and agricultural tractors against certain inward remit- tances of foreign exchange. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is, in general, prohibited. However, deck-class passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Travel- ers from Burma, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in Indian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coin, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remit- tances from any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior ap- proval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with over 40 percent nonresident interest.7 The Reserve Bank will allow companies having nonresident interest in excess of 40 percent and up to 75 percent to continue their activities depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export- oriented production, or in manufacturing activities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 percent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, application of sophis- ticated technology, and export production account for not less than 60 percent of their annual turnover, with a minimum of 10 percent export performance within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated technology, and export production account for not less than 75 percent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain 74 percent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 percent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 percent nonresident equity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-factory cost of annual production are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 percent. Companies that export 100 percent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predomi- nantly in trading activities, or that do not meet the other criteria listed above, are required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 percent within a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 percent but below 75 percent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trading and commercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in 7 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad and overseas company and partnership firms that are owned at least 60 percent by nonresident Indians may invest freely in any public or private limited company, in any partnership or proprietorship concern, and in industrial, manufacturing, or trade activity (except where the proposed investment is in real estate), provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their Nonresident Accounts, and provided that an under- taking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom w i ll not be requested. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies defined above can (a) make portfolio invest- ment, with repatriation benefit, up to 1 percent of the capital; (b) invest freely in National Savings Certificates w i th fu ll repatriation benef i t; and (c) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manufacturing projects and up to 74 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries, w i th free repatriation of such investment and income therefrom after deduction of applicable Indian taxes. INDIA which the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Noncitizens, non-Indian companies, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 percent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable prop- erty within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 percent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents export- ing Indian securities and transferring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited—except with central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with central government permis- sion, from associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be re- patriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale which involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not exceeding four. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to the equivalent of Rs 100,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account and np further remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are temporarily resident in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each family at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 50,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nation- als temporarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resident in India) who are private persons are not normally per- mitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Indian nationals, and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, resident abroad and wishing to return to India to take up employment or to set up small industrial units are upon application exempted, for a period of five years from the date of their return to India, from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and com- ponents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances im- mediately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also ex- tended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange En- titlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence on or after November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 25 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for cer- tain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of ten years from the date of return of the head of the family. Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coin) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of 252 gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state manage- ment. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold jewelry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permis- sion for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re- export, provided that payment for the import will not be required, that the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary l im i ts, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Under the gold jewelry export scheme, net export of gold from India is not permitted, and the export of gold jewelry is permitted only if the value added is 15 percent or more; export under the scheme to the Bilateral Group of countries is not permitted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 6. The "notional" exchange rates at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresidents) Accounts were changed to £ stg. 1 = Rs 16.50 and US$1 = Rs 8.75. March 3. The Export-Import Bank of India was authorized to undertake, in all permitted currencies, specified types of foreign exchange transactions inci- dental to the Bank's normal operations. March 22. The Reserve Bank suspended, until further notice, spot purchases of deutsche mark acquired by authorized dealers from their overseas branches, head offices, or correspondents for the purpose of funding their rupee accounts in India. April 7. The floor on buying rates and the ceiling on selling rates for U .S. dollar notes were changed to Rs 9.00 = US$1 and Rs 9.80 = US$1, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 21. The floor on buying rates and the ceiling on selling rates for U .S. dollar notes were changed to Rs 9.20 = US$1 and Rs 9.60 = US$1, respectively. June 25. The ruble-rupee exchange rate was revised to rub 1 = Rs 9.6997. June 25. The rupee value of the special currency basket, applicable to contracts concluded under the Deferred Payments Protocol dated April 30, 1981 be- tween the Government of India and the U .S .S .R ., relating to deliveries of machinery and equipment from U.S.S.R. to India, was revised to Rs 10.2518. September 30. The floor on buying rates and the ceiling on selling rates for U .S. dollar notes were changed to Rs 9.40 = US$1 and Rs 9.80 = US$1, respectively. November 17. The exchange rates at which authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in foreign currency nonresident account scheme were changed to £ stg. 1 = Rs 16.00 and US$1 = Rs 9.15. November 19. The floor on buy ing rates and ceiling on selling rates for U .S. dollar notes were changed to Rs 9.50 = US$1 and Rs 9.90 = US$1, respectively. Administration of Control February 8. The Reserve Bank authorized full-fledged money changers for a period of one year to sell foreign exchange to eligible persons in the form of currency notes or coins under the Foreign Travel Scheme and the Neighborhood Travel Scheme. Nonresident Accounts April 22. The Nonresident (External) Account scheme and the Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Account scheme were extended to overseas companies and partnership firms owned at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. Term deposits of one year and above under these schemes would yield an additional interest of 2 percent a year over the rates permissible on domestic deposits of comparable maturities. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The following changes were made in customs duties: (a) an increase of 5 percentage points in the rates of auxiliary duty on imported goods, with specified exceptions; (b) withdrawal of total exemption on imports of cement, and imposition on such imports of a du ty of 10 percent ad valorem, together with an additional (countervailing) duty equal to the excise duty; (c) increase in the duty on aniline from 60 percent to 80 percent ad valorem; (d) increase in duty on synthetic organic dye s tuffs, paints, varnishes, enamels, optical bleaching agents, etc., from 60 percent or 100 percent to 100 percent or 150 percent ad valorem, and from 50 percent ad valorem (preferential) to 90 percent ad valorem (preferential) in respect of optical bleaching agents; (e) increase in the duty on polyester chips from 100 percent to 140 percent ad valorem; (f) increase in the duty on cork and articles of cork from 40 percent to INDIA 60 percent ad valorem; (g) increase in duty on certain items of iron and steel from various rates to 60 percent ad valorem; (h) increase in the duty on copper tubes and pipes, etc. from 40 percent to 60 percent ad valorem; (i) increase in the duty on unwrought zinc from 40 percent to 45 percent ad valorem; (j) increase in the duty on electronic items, such as computers, calculating ma- chines, accounting machines, cash registers, and certain subassemblies, from 40 percent to 60 percent to 100 percent ad valorem; (k) reduction in the duty on acetate filament yarn from 125 percent to 20 percent ad valorem; (1) reduction in the duty on certain specified machines and instruments for electronics industry from the existing rates to 30 percent ad valorem; (m) reduction in the duty on certain raw materials and components for the elec- tronics industry from the existing rates to 45 percent ad valorem; (n) fu ll exemption from auxiliary duty of customs on 19 GATT items granted from May 11, 1982; (o) redefinition of the levy on newsprint at a specific du ty of Rs 825 a ton as against the existing duty of 15 percent ad valorem; (p) total exemption from the duty on two types of fertilizer, namely, calcium ammonium nitrate and ammonium sulphate; (q) total exemption from the duty of 80 percent ad valorem on certain specified bulk drugs used in the manufacture of life- saving drugs and medicines; (r) exemption from the basic duty in excess of 10 percent to 30 percent, and total exemption from auxiliary du ty, for certain glass shells for manufacture of electric lamps; and (s) withdrawal of Commonwealth preferences from all former British colonies, excluding Mauritius, Seychelles, and Tonga. April 5. The following changes were made in the import system: (a) a number of items were shifted to the less restrictive import licensing categories; (b) permis- sion to import raw materials was extended to those other than end-users, w i th the exception of 97 items; (c) an increase of 10 percent over actual use of automatic licenses in 1981/82 was programmed for 1982/83, or an increase of 20 percent for actual users forgoing a separate supplementary license application; (d) a repeat license system was introduced, under which goods could be imported by actual users in 1982/83 on the basis of the 1981/82 automatic license whenever the license value was less than Rs 100,000; (e) permission was granted to import otherwise prohibited capital goods if such imports would reduce production costs by at least 10 percent; (f) authorization was granted to import technical designs, drawings, and other technology without prior clearance, provided that the import was made against export replenishment (REP) licenses and that the value did not exceed Rs 500,000; (g) permission was given for actual users setting up new capacity or expanding existing capacity to import, without the usual clearance pro- cedure, capital goods for up to 10 percent of the purchase price of goods procured from indigenous sources, provided the imports did not exceed Rs 10 million. In addition, the following changes in import regu- lations were made in respect of export-oriented produc- ers: (a) a larger increase (20 percent) was granted in 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA automatic licenses than for general importers (10 per- cent); (b) fewer restrictions were applied with respect to the newly introduced repeat license facility than for other users; (c) additional REP licenses were granted, equal to 10 percent of exports for imports of raw materials and components on the list of automatic permissible items; (d) permission was given for unrestricted imports against exporters' own REP licenses, provided the goods were needed for export production; (e) for producers having exported at least 10 percent of production, amounting to at least Rs 500,000, unrestricted imports of machinery against REP license was permitted, provided that the license value did not exceed Rs 2 million, and that the product was not included in the list of banned items; (f) for producers having exported at least 25 percent of production, or at least Rs 100 million, authorization was granted for use of supplementary licenses for the direct import of canalized items for up to 25 percent of the value of the license, subject to a value limit on a single item; (g) free imports of know-how, designs, and other foreign technology without value limit was authorized for producers having exported at least 50 percent of their production in each of the last three years, and free imports up to a value of Rs 10 million for producers having exported at least 25 percent of production; (h) for producers having exported at least 50 percent of their production, new supplementary licenses were granted for a value of up to 50 percent of automatic licenses issued for 1981/82; (i) imports for 100 percent export- oriented units were made free of restrictions; (j) autho- rization was granted for trading and export houses to import machinery for up to Rs 2 million a year against REP licenses, for sale to actual users; (k) the scheme of duty-free imports under advance licenses was expanded; and (1) the list of commodities importable duty free under REP licenses was enlarged. April 16. The import duty on specified stainless steel items was fixed at 300 percent ad valorem. April 19. Coal tar pitch was exempted from all import duties. April 22. The rate of auxiliary duty on imports of viscose filament yarn of below 600 deniers was reduced to 5 percent. May 1. Exemption from the auxiliary duty of customs was granted for specified goods imported in connection with petroleum operations. May 17. Imports of acrylic plastic scrap were shifted from the limited permission list to the list of auto- matically permitted items. May 18. Bars and rods of alloy steel having certain specifications for manufacture of valves for internal combustion engines were exempted from the basic duty in excess of 60 percent ad valorem. May 22. The customs duty on tinplate and tin sheets was increased from 55 percent to 65 percent ad valorem. May 26. Lead glass tubings and rods for manufacture of components for electric lamps and fluorescent tubes were exempted from the basic duty in excess of 25 percent ad valorem and from auxiliary duty. 254 June 3. The customs duty on 5 specified plastic resins was increased from 60 percent to 100 percent ad valorem, and on 11 specified resins from 100 percent to 150 percent ad valorem. June 5. The customs duty on caprolactum was increased from 25 percent to 55 percent ad valorem. June 25. Crude sodium borate (including its concen- trates) was exempted from basic duty in excess of 40 percent ad valorem and from the additional duty. June 28. Certain goods imported in connection with offshore oil exploration or exploitation were exempted from all customs duties. July 22. The rate of customs duty on iron or steel cylinder blanks for manufacture of industrial gas cylin- ders was reduced to 40 percent ad valorem. July 22. Titanium and titanium alloys were moved from the list of goods importable under OGL to the list of automatically permitted items; furthermore high-speed rods or wires of specified diameters were shifted from the OGL to the list of automatically permitted items. July 30. The tariff rates on dry fruits were modified. July 31. The concessional import duty on aluminum was withdrawn, and such imports were made liable to the statutory rate of customs duty. August 17. Specified items for construction of, or fitment of, ships of the Coast Guard were exempted from basic, auxiliary, and additional duty. August 20. The rate of import duty on alloy steel (other than stainless steel) items, with the exception of specified types of electrical steel sheets, was increased from 60 percent to 85 percent ad valorem. August 23. Di-isobutylene for manufacture of oxo- alcohol was exempted from basic duty in excess of 45 percent ad valorem and from the auxiliary du ty. August 26. The rate of customs duty on viscose staple fiber was increased from 10 percent to 20 percent ad valorem. August 31. Imports of pig iron were exempted from import duties. September 10. Raw materials and components for use in the manufacture of goods to be supplied to projects financed with aid from the IDA and the IBRD were exempted from import duties. October 25. Four items of pesticides were moved from the list of automatically permitted to the list of nonpermitted items; in addition, three other items of pesticides were shifted to the list of nonpermitted items and were no longer importable under OGL. November 24. Stainless steel bars, rods, and wires of cross sectional dimensions less than 10 millimeters were exempted from basic custom duty in excess of 60 percent. December 8. Auxiliary customs duties were raised by 5 percentage points on most imports other than petro- leum, petroleum products, fertilizers, and newsprint, and concessions on additional duties on certain iron and steel imports were withdrawn. Payments for Invisibles November 17. It was announced that visits under the Foreign Travel Scheme could be combined with visits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for any other purpose except tours on export promotion and other business matters, hajj pilgrimage, and travel under the Neighborhood Travel Scheme. Exports and Export Proceeds February 15. The export duty on groundnuts was abolished. February 17. The rate of export duty on coffee was increased from Rs 85 to Rs 300 a quintal. February 28. The rate of export duty on chromite ore and concentrate was reduced to 10 percent ad valorem. April 1. Cash compensation for exports of de-oiled rice bran was abolished. June 1. The export duty on coffee was reduced from Rs 300 to Rs 120 a quintal. July 5. The export duty on coffee was increased from Rs 120 to Rs 190 a quintal. September 20. The rate of export duty on coffee was increased from Rs 190 to Rs 300 a quintal. November 3. The export duty on coffee was increased from Rs 300 to Rs 440 a quintal. December 17. The rate of export duty on coffee was increased from Rs 440 to Rs 530 a quintal. Capital August 20. The Reserve Bank liberalized the facility for nonresident Indians to make direct and portfolio investment in debentures and preference shares issued by Indian companies, and simplified the procedures to effect such transactions. As a result, nonresident Indians INDIA were allowed to (a) invest in existing and new shares, provided that capital and earned income would not be repatriated; (b) make portfolio investment, with repatria- tion benefit, of up to 1 percent of the capital; and (c) invest in six-year National Savings Certificates. The limits under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) on foreign shareholdings were also liberalized to accommodate investment by nonresident Indians. In addition, facilities were extended to companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent was owned by nonresident Indians. December 10, It was announced that remittance of the sale proceeds of investments in Indian companies held by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin on repatriation basis would be allowed to the extent of the cost of acquisition of investment or the actual amount of sale proceeds, whichever was lower, immediately on legalization of sale proceeds, without production of "no objection/tax clearance certificate" from the income tax authorities. Repatriation of the excess amount, if any, representing capital gain would be allowed on the production of "no objection/tax clearance certificate" from the income tax authorities. Gold May 10. The scheme introduced in October 1980 for export of gold jewelry against gold supplied by foreign buyers, operated by the Handicrafts and Handlooms Exports Corporation of India, Ltd., was extended up to March 31, 1983. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Since November 16, 1978 the middle rate of the rupiah in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, has been set by Bank Indonesia using a basket of curren- cies of Indonesia's main trading partners as one of the variables. Transactions in the Jakarta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates within 1 percent either side of the middle rate of the rupiah; on December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for telegraphic transfers were Rp 691.00 and Rp 694.50, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are deter- mined on the basis of the rates in the Jakarta Bourse for the U .S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse, daily calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial institutions, and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks notify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market, and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks and nonbank financial institutions certain facilities for swap transactions in U .S. dollars. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,2 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convert- ible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in specified currencies.3 Indonesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements.4 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transac- tions, that is, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 With the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain automobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 3The currencies listed in footnote 1 and the U .S. dollar. 4 Indonesia maintains an inoperative bilateral payments agreement w i th the People's Republic of China. 256 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made be- tween resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to withdraw funds, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and an ini- tial deposit is required for registration. Since October 31, 1968 only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as importers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Angola and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include built-up sedans and station wagons; components for the assembly of luxury automobiles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in bu i l t-up or semi-knocked-down condition; and pesticide penthachlorophenol. Imports of certain goods, such as fertilizer, gold, pesticide, rice, refined sugar, and wheat flour are restricted to approved importers. Imports of certain commodities for the "basic national stockpile" are reserved for state enterprises; these currently include cement, newsprint, certain types of paper, automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving yarn, sheet iron, reinforc- ing steel, raw materials for maritime industries, and pharmaceutical raw materials. Since August 1982, garlic, white cement, and raw materials for dairy products can be imported only by importers appointed by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives. Beginning November 1982, specified groups of industrial products can be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives; the groups comprise electric and electronic products, chemicals, automotive spare parts, metals, machinery, machinery components and spare parts, textile and heavy du ty equipment, and spare parts. Beginning December 1982, certain agricultural com- modities can be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives; these commodities include garlic (fresh or dried), green peas, cloves, maize, sago flour, manioc (cassava) flour, groundnuts (with or without shells), copra, palm fru i t, palm kernels, soybeans, soybean flour, palm oil, raw or refined coconut oil, palm kernel oil, olein, stearin, tapioca (granules), soybean cake and residue, unpro- cessed tobacco and tobacco residue, salt, rubber, crumb rubber, rubber scrap and residue. Of these commodities, green peas, maize, soybeans, soybean flour, and soy- bean cake can be imported only by the Government Food ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Procurement agency (BULOG). Tapioca and kernel flours can be imported only by Tjipta Niaga (a govern- ment agency). Importation of steel products in the forms of steel slabs, steel sheets for vessels, hot-rolled steel sheet in coils, and other specified hot-rolled sheets is controlled by the Government and can be made only by Persero Niaga (a government agency), acting on behalf of PT Krakatau Steel, a government-owned steel mill. Imports of 46 different categories of food, beverages, and fruits can be effected only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives. Import duties, which are partly specific and partly ad valorem, are imposed on the basis of "check" prices (indicative prices) determined by the Ministers of Trade and Cooperatives, Industry, and Finance on the recom- mendation of a Check Price Team. These prices reflect c . i .f. prices and are changed when prices abroad differ by more than 10 percent from the check prices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 percent are levied on most imports on their c. & f. value plus import du ty. Certain commodities are granted preferential duty treatment within the framework of the ASEAN preferential trading arrangements. Items that are exempt from import duties are also exempt from sales taxes. Since 1967, a special tax, called the MPO tax has been applied to imports. The MPO tax is a withholding tax for which payments can be credited against the ind iv idua l's or corporation's domestic income tax liability. Since February 6, 1982 the MPO tax on imports has been collected by the Customs Department. Prior to that date the tax was collected by the foreign exchange banks at the time of issuance of the customs declaration (PPUD). The MPO import tax at present is Rp 50 per US$1 of c .i .f. import value for licensed importers and Rp 200 per US$1 for all other importers, equivalent to tax rates of 7.5 percent and 29.4 percent, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore, pure gold, silver ore, and pure silver; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madura); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian Jay a); iron scrap; steel scrap; fertilizers; rice; sugar; kapok seeds; antiques of cultural value; and raw rattan. Registration of authorized exporters is required. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by means of quotas, in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand; these include logs, fertilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, and meat. The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade and Cooperatives is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver export by PN Aneka Tambang, and INDONESIA all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Otherwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private firms and state-trading firms. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no surrender requirement for export proceeds. To calculate export taxes on the principal commodities other than petroleum and gas, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices determined periodically by the Minis- ter of Trade and Cooperatives. Exports of certain products are subject to an export tax: exports of copra cake, sawn timber, palm oil, and a few other com- modities are subject to a 5 percent tax, the major mineral products to a 10 percent tax, and semiprocessed rattan, unsawn timber (logs), and certain types of hides to a 20 percent tax. Since 1979 a few products have also been subject to an additional export tax, including sonokeling wood, 8.1 percent; ramin wood, 0.75 percent; ebony wood, 20.84 percent; and miscellaneous woods, 6.75 percent. An MPO tax is also applied to exports. At present, the tax rates are Rp 40 = US$1 (or equivalent) for exports of log and timber products and Rp 15 per US$1 for all other products, equivalent to tax rates of 5.9 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. When exports are effected on a letter of credit, documents against payment as well as against acceptance basis, the export tax, the additional export tax, and the MPO tax on exports are collected by the foreign exchange bank at the time the exporter receives pay- ments. When other forms of export settlement are used, the exporter generally pays these three taxes directly to the Treasury. Under the Export Certificate Scheme, exporters of specified products obtain a rebate of customs duties, import sales taxes, and MPO (prepayment of corporation profits taxes) paid on imported inputs. To qualify for the Export Certificate Scheme, an exporter must submit an application to the Ministries of Industry and Finance, providing such information as the sources of imported raw materials, their c . i . f. values, import duties and other taxes paid on imported raw materials, and the f .o .b. price of finished products being exported. The objective of the scheme is to reimburse the exporter for all indirect taxes he has paid on imported inputs. The rate of tax rebate is expressed as a percentage of the f .o .b. value of exports. Once the rate of tax rebate is determined for a specific product, it is applied to all exporters of the same product without further proof of the use of imported inputs until a new rate is determined. At present, some 544 items are eligible for the Export Certificate Scheme. These consist exclusively of manufactured goods, and the rates of certificates range from 1.5 percent to 20 percent. Export certificates may be used by the exporter to pay other taxes or be cashed at the Treasury. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA must not exceed M$600 a month, whether transported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if transported by boat. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presidential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, together with two Presidential Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977, and by a Presidential Decree issued in July 1981. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the President on the recommendation of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incor- porated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes and customs duties on imported raw materials and capital goods for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to make capital repatriation, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in In- donesia) and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday from corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The explora- tion and development of petroleum resources are gov- erned by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DICS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaran- teed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DICS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects 258 that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or com- modities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 15 percent reserve require- ment is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank finan- cial institutions or private companies. Certain borrowing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia or the Ministry of Finance, or both. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securi- ties denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person and gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported free of license only by importers designated by the Government. Such imports require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 16. The requirement that importers must open letters of credit was abolished. February 5. The list of imports eligible for preferen- tial tariff treatment under the ASEAN agreement was expanded. February 6. Following the elimination of the require- ments that exports and imports must be on a letter of credit basis, new procedures were introduced for collect- ing the MPO tax on imports, as well as the export tax, the additional export tax, and the MPO tax on exports. April 12. A Presidential decree was issued stipulating that shipment of public sector exports and imports must be done with vessels operated by Indonesian companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution April 16. The list of imports eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the ASEAN agreement was expanded. April 19. A partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted for steel boiler tubes and heat exchanger tubes, reducing the import duty rate for these commodities to 10 percent and the import sales tax rate to 5 percent. May 10. The import duty and import sales tax on specified scientific books were reduced to zero percent. May 17. A partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted for cement. May 18. A partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted for slings made of polypro- pylene, reducing the import duty rate to 5 percent, and the import sales tax rate to 2.5 percent. July 3. The list of imports eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the ASEAN agreement was ex- panded further by 400 commodities. June 17. A partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted for steel slabs, reducing the import duty rate to zero percent. October 23. The list of imports eligible for preferen- tial tariff treatment under the ASEAN agreement was further expanded by 86 products. December 22. The list of imports eligible for ASEAN preferential tariff arrangement was further expanded by 205 commodities. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. The Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives issued guidelines for the new export counterpurchase policy under which certain imports by the Government and public sector enterprises should be linked to the export of non-oil products from Indonesia. January 16. A new Export Policy was decreed, involving the following main changes in existing regula- tions: (a) the requirement that exporters should surrender export proceeds was abolished; (b) the regulation requir- ing exporters to open a letter of credit was abolished; (c) instructions were issued for the improvement in customs procedures for exports, including 24-hour handling of exports, simplification of the processing of export documents, a requirement that export documents be completed not later than one day after the loading of the INDONESIA goods, and procedures for improving the examination of goods by the Customs Department; (d) an arrangement was introduced for export credits to be made available by state banks at interest rates of 6 percent for most commodities and 9 percent for commodities considered to be strong exports, with 60 percent of the credits rediscountable at 3 percent at Bank Indonesia; (e) a new export credit guarantee facility was established providing credit guarantee at Vz of 1 percent for a period up to 6 months, 3/4 of 1 percent for 6 to 9 months, and 1 percent for 9 to 12 months; and (f) a new export insurance facility was established to cover the risk of nonpayment by foreign buyers, with premiums ranging from Vs of 1 percent to 4 percent of export value. February 6. Following the elimination of the require- ments that exports and imports must be on a letter of credit basis, new procedures were introduced for collect- ing the export tax, the additional export tax, the MPO tax on exports, and the MPO tax on imports. April 1. For a period up to June 30, 1982, the following additional export tax rates were introduced: (a) zero percent for palm oil, stearin, coffee, black tea, copra, coconut oil, and teak wood, and (b) for sawn timber consisting of remin, 0.75 percent; sonokeling, 8.1 percent; ebony, 18.04 percent; and miscellaneous woods, 6.75 percent. April 12. A Presidential decree was issued stipulating that shipment of public sector exports and imports must be on vessels operated by Indonesian companies. July 8. For the period through September 30, 1982, the additional export tax rate on palm oil, stearin, coffee, black tea, copra, coconut oil, and sawn timber was reduced to zero percent. October 8. For a period up to December 31, 1982, the additional export tax rates were revised to (a) zero percent for palm oil, stearin, coffee, black tea, copra, coconut oil, and teakwood, and (b) for sawn timber consisting of ramin, 0.75 percent; sonokeling, 8.10 percent; ebony, 20.84 percent; and miscellaneous woods, 6.75 percent. November 20. Export tax rates on crude palm oil and palm oil products consisting of crude palm oil, crude palm olein, crude palm stearin, and free fatty acid from palm trees were reduced to zero percent. December 6. Full exemption from sales tax was granted to palm kernels, palm oil, and palm kernel oil. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for individual currencies are determined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate and the rates of such currencies in terms of the SDR as declared by the Fund. On December 31, 1982 the official rates of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central Bank) for the U .S. dollar were Rls 83.208 buying and Rls 83.658 selling, per US$1. These daily exchange rates are used for the purpose of calculating import registration fees and import duties. A preferential rate is applied to proceeds from non-oil exports, and other posted rates are applied to sales of foreign exchange for tourism and certain other payments for invisibles. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after being approved by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the eleven countries with which the Islamic Republic of Iran has bilateral pay- ments agreements1 must be conducted through agree- ment accounts denominated in U .S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea must be conducted through accounts denominated in Iranian rials. Settlements with other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bang- ladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum and natural gas and their products) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of a country that is a party to the individual contract. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. There are no transactions with Israel and South Africa. A total of 16 banking arrangements have been concluded with major Western European banks to establish a "Special Account" for clearing payments related to the sale of crude oil in exchange for purchase of a variety of products and raw materials from Western European suppliers. The pay- ments are partly made in cash but the major part of the 'A lban ia, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 260 proceeds of sales on each side are held in the Special Account from which payments are made for purchases from the other side. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain accounts in rials, as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used for payments in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Some imports are made by government-operated import agencies (procurement and distribution centers) and individual importers can initiate the importation of goods, subject to the prior approval of the import centers and to a check by the latter that the invoice is in order. The import policy is re-examined periodically, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year (March 21-March 20), is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "au- thorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods.2 "Authorized" imports consist of goods considered as essential. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose importation is not considered essential, including goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted from the "author- ized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise items such as opium, firearms, and imports considered to be luxury goods. At the time of registration of imports, a fee of 2 percent of the amount of the import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate, is collected by authorized banks. For some goods, importers must lodge with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 percent of the c . i . f. value; this is done at the time of registration. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from the registration deposit. The deposit as well as the import registration fee is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category and vice versa. Authorized banks make payments for permitted im- ports against the presentation of shipping documents. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed 2 As from October 5, 1981 all imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the ministries and organizations concerned, before being registered by the authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in addition to any applicable customs du ty. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles The official rate is applied for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The official rate is not applied for the payment of other insurance pre- m iums, although payment of prem iums for reinsurance is permitted. Foreign nationals working in the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government, may remit about 50 percent (medical staff, 70 percent) of their net salaries. The basic travel allowance for an ind iv idual Iranian is up to the equivalent of US$1,000. Upon presentation of a valid passport, valid exit visa, travel ticket, and evidence of payment of travel tax, extra allowances can be provided to the spouse and children of the passport holder. Persons needing medical treatment may obtain foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$10,000; additional foreign exchange can be obtained upon the approval of Bank Markazi. The sale of foreign exchange to students studying abroad varies for d ifferent countries according to the cost of living in the respective countries, up to US$750 a month; an additional allowance of 35 percent of the basic allowance is provided for married students, and a 15 percent allowance is provided for each ch i ld. In certain circumstances, such as students attending U . K. universities, provision is made for the tuition to be paid separately. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs du ty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufac- tured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Bank Markazi offers preferential rates of exchange for export proceeds in certain cases. The foreign currency proceeds from exports of com- modities must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi, bu t, with the prior approval of Bank Markazi, they may accept other currencies. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exporters in some cases are ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN permitted w i th the approval of Bank Markazi to import goods for value equ iva lent to their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account w i th an authorized bank; if the foreign currency is earned abroad, transfers from such accounts do not require the prior approval of Bank Markaz i. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes; the import of larger amounts requires the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign currency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; if the foreign currency is earned abroad, transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Markazi. Retransfer abroad of foreign capital is permitted w i th approval from Bank Markaz i, provided that the inflow has been specifically authorized by, and registered w i th, Bank Markazi. The net short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 20 percent. Gold No Iranian gold coins are legal tender. Residents may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in the Islamic Republic of Iran, and there is a free market for both metals. Authorized banks may import gold and silver bullion with prior approval of Bank Markazi against settlement at the official rate. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Bank Markazi, while imports for industrial and dental use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi. The export of Iranian gold coins for num is- matic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Imports of gold are subject to customs du ty, a commer- cial benefit tax of 5 percent, and an import registration fee of 2 percent. Passengers may, without prior approval by Bank Markazi, bring in jewelry w i th a value equivalent to Rls 5 million, as well as up to one kilogram of gold bu l l ion. Applicable customs duties and other charges mus t, however, be paid. Changes during 1982 Import and Import Payments March 21. The import registration fee was increased from 1 percent to 2 percent. Gold July 12. Authorization was granted for passengers to bring in, w i thout prior approval by Bank Markazi, jewe lry w i th a va lue equivalent to Rls 5 million as well as up to one kilogram of gold bu l l ion. Applicable customs duties and other charges must, however, be paid. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at .ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1982 were US$3.2249 and US$3.2089, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this authority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Commit- tee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. All branches of the Rafidain Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Board for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained origi- nally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- dent accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 262 Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities normally are handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protection list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. Regulations determining the incidence of this tax are issued annua l ly. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 0.75 percent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 percent of the applicable customs du ty. The Rafidain Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Ex- change is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank is permitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 percent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain nonresident private sector companies that have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 58 a person. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel of ID 400 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 200 for persons under 18) for trips to Arab countries, socialist countries, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Turkey, irrespective of the length of stay; for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances may be reduced to 50 percent of the basic allowance for one trip. For tourist travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 750 a trip for each person 18 years of age (ID 300 for persons under 18 years), irrespective of the length of stay, and 50 percent of the basic allocation for subse- quent trips in the same calendar year. The individual exchange allowance for official mis- sions abroad is ID 40-50 a day for Group A countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (Western European and A rab coun tr ies) and ID 30-40 a day for Group B countries (socialist countries, Tu rkey, and Cyp rus ), sub ject to a l i m it of 90 days a t r i p. Foreign exchange allocations for I raqi s tuden ts abroad are as fo l lows: in add i t ion to ac tual t u i t i on costs, for each academic year, ID 1,800 for s tuden ts in the U n i t ed States, ID 1,600 for the U n i t ed K i n g d om, ID 1,450 for the Ne the r land s, ID 1,200 for A lg e r i a, Morocco, and Tun i s ia, and ID 900 for other Arab coun t r ie s; supp le- men tary allowances of ID 300 a year to s tuden ts in Western Europe, ID 250 for those in A rab coun t r ie s, and ID 100-300 for those in the U . S . S . R. are also pe rm i t ted. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, wh i ch is considered part of the basic t ravel a l lowance, and the balance of that a l lowance in t rave le r 's checks. Residents on p i lg r im age to Saudi A rab ia are perm i t ted to take out the equ iv a l ent of ID 300, whe ther they t ravel on the ir own or make arrangements th rough travel agents. Half of th is a l lowance is perm i t ted for persons und er 18 years. Exchange a l lowances for p i lg r im age are un re la ted to other t r av e l ing a l lowances d u r i ng the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Afr ica and exports of certain goods to all other coun t r ies are p roh ib i ted. The Board for the Regu la t ion of Trade has au tho r i ty to p roh ib it the export of any commod i ty when supp ly f a l ls short of domestic demand. The export of cer ta in i tems is reserved for the General O rgan iza t ion for Exports. All other exports are licensed f ree ly. Exporters gene ra l ly mu st unde r take to repatriate th e ir foreign exchange proceeds th rough the R a f i d a in Bank and to surrender them w i t h in s ix mon ths af ter s h i pm e n t. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by s a i l i ng boats to countries of the Gu lf area (exc lud ing the Is lam ic Re- pub l ic of I ran ), I n d i a, and Pak is tan are exempt from these requ iremen ts when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in va lue or 25 tons in we igh t. Exports of certain goods are subs id ized th rough an Export Subs idy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from inv i s ib les mu st be surrendered w i t h in three mon ths to a licensed dealer. Travelers may b r ing in fore ign ex- change, i n c l u d i ng currency notes (o ther than Israel currency), in un l im i t ed amoun t s, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amoun ts not intended to be taken out of the coun t ry are exempt from declaration. Travelers may b r ing in ID 25 in I raqi notes, and Arab na t iona ls of Gu lf coun tr ies may b r ing in ID 100 in such notes. Capital Nonresidents may import cap i tal f ree ly, except from Israel or South A f r ica, but they must deposit it w i th the Raf ida in Bank; such deposits may be converted in to local currency at the off ic ial rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is pe rm i t ted. Under Reso lu t ion No. 1646 of the Revo lu t iona ry Command Counc i l, IRAQ enacted in November 1980, the fo l low ing regulations on investments are applied: (a) no foreign (defined as non- A rab) pa r t ic ipa t ion is allowed in the cap i tal of private sector compan ies; (b) c i t izens of Arab states may par t ic ipa te w i th I raq is in the cap i tal of indus t r ial projects and comme rc ial companies; (c) shares of foreigners (other than na t iona ls of Arab states) participating in the cap i tal of indu s t r i al projects and commercial companies in Iraq mu st be phased out w i t h in a period of one year from the in t roduc t ion of th is Reso lu t ion. All transfers of cap i tal abroad by res iden ts, whe ther Iraq is or foreigners, requ i re exchange control approval. Special fac i l i t ies allow Arab investors to br ing in convertible currency; s im i l ar f a c i l i t i es pe rm it Iraqi na t iona ls abroad to open accoun ts at the R a f id a in Bank w i th foreign currencies that are free ly t rans fe rab le abroad. Und er the I n d u s t r i al Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), cer ta in incen t ives and guaran tees may be granted to approved inves tmen ts of domestic or foreign capital in I raq. Under the I raq iza t ion Law of June 1961, all branches of fo re ign f i rms and all foreign-owned f irms m u st have a ma jo r i ty of Iraqi equ i ty cap i ta l; th is law does not cover export agencies and operations requ i r ing special sk i l l s. Gold Res iden ts may free ly pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. The Ra f ida in Bank has a monopoly over the import and domestic d i s t r ibu t ion of gold needed for indu s t r i al purposes; it sells gold to registered go ldsm i ths o n l y, under a quota system based on the ir past turnover of gold. Travelers may free ly bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a fore ign exchange fo rm. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement October 17. The b u y i ng and selling rates of the Iraqi d in ar were adjusted from US$3.3950 = ID 1 and US$3.3778 - ID 1, respec t ive ly, to US$3.2249 = ID 1 and US$3.2089 - ID 1, respec t ive ly, imp ly ing a deva lua t ion of 5 percent in terms of m idpo in ts. Payments for Invisibles April 25. The basic travel allowance for those aged 18 years or above was reduced from (a) ID 500 a trip a person for travel to Arab coun tr ies, socialist countries, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Turkey, and ID 1,000 for travel to all other coun tr ies, to (b) ID 400 and ID 750, respec t ive ly, for the two groups of countries. For those under 18 years of age, the reductions for the two groups of coun tr ies were from ID 250 to ID 200, and from ID 500 to ID 300, respectively. August 4. The l im it on the amount a resident could take out on p i lg r image to Mecca was reduced from ID 500 to ID 300. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ November 1. The individual exchange allowance for official travel was reduced from ID 60—70 to ID 40—50 for Group A countries, and from ID 50-60 to ID 30-40 for Group B countries. December 14. Authorization to grant foreign ex- change allowances for tourist travel was placed under the Central Bank of Iraq. In addition, the maximum amount that resident Arab and foreign nationals employed without contracts could transfer abroad was reduced from ID 900 a person a year to a monthly limit of ID 58 a person. The proportion of annual income which Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq could trans- fer abroad was also lowered from 75 per cent to 60 percent. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mech- anism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Ireland maintains the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1982 these rates were as follows: SpPr if iPH Tn tP rvPn t inn Irish Pounds Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 1.57155 8.5830 30.2845 10.6855 0.54338 27.3975 1.50241 8.2055 28.9520 10.2155 0.048197 26.1915 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$1.3960 and US$1.3975, respectively, per Ir£ l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Energy or the Depart- ment of Trade, Commerce, and Tourism if the goods are of an industrial nature or by the Department of Agricul- ture if they are agricultural in character; import licenses are also issued by the Department of Fisheries and Forestry and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export con- trols are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresidents, that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprises two categories: (1) residents of EC member countries and (2) residents of all other countries. Authorized payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are desig- nated External Accounts. All credits in excess of Ir£250,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks require specific approval by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland. There are also limits on maximum balances in External Accounts of nonresident banks; these may be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with payments that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, with transfers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies pur- chased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish cur- rency notes in denominations not exceeding Ir£20, pay- ments from within the country up to Ir£100 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Ac- counts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency ac- counts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same require- ments as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods into Ireland is subject to five types of administrative control, as follows: Quantitative Restriction. Special quota restrictions apply to (1) bicycle tires from countries other than member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile products originating in the state-trading countries; (3) automobile tires from the German Democratic Re- public; (4) footwear from Czechoslovakia and Taiwant; (5) certain sacks and bags other than those of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (mainly jute bags originat- ing in Hong Kong, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Ta iwan t, the state-trading countries, and tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Yugoslavia); and (6) certain ceramic products originat- ing in the People's Republic of China. Autonomous import restrictions have been imposed by the EC on certain textiles originating in Taiwant and certain luxury products originating in the U .S .S .R. Voluntary Restraint. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements with various supplying countries on trade in textiles under which import quotas are set each year for different products. Surveillance. Ireland operates a system of surveillance on certain imports of the following: live plants or flori- cultural products, processed fruit and vegetable prod- ucts, phosphate fertilizers, iron and steel products, clothing and textiles, footwear, twine, cordage, motor- car types, copper tubes, and specified ceramic products. National Public Policy. For reasons of national pol- icy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland, or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order, or if payment is not being made in an approved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports from non-EC countries of products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs tariff. For permitted imports, permission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Authority to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding Ir£l0,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for residents of Ireland of Ir£600 a person for each trip, or when the trip exceeds two months, Ir£2,000. For business travel, up to Ir£3,000 at a rate of Ir£100 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir£500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to Ir£100 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. 266 Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if their value exceeds Ir£100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £Irl0,000 and must be produced to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date he received the exchange. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior central bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denomina- tions exceeding Ir£20 to External Accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to authorized dealers; other payments require central bank approval. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emigration is Ir£40,000 for each family. When the total value of an emigrant's assets exceed Ir£40,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, that is, from the date of departure from Ireland; however, during this four-year period, income on restricted assets may be transferred abroad. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported without limit. For Irish residents taking up permanent residence in an EC country, including those taking up employment, applications to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allowances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. The Central Bank considers applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EC may be financed only by foreign currency loans, which are ap- proved by the Central Bank on application, subject to a limit of Lr£20,000 a property and one property for each ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution family un i t. Borrowings may be repaid with official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Transactions in foreign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure that, in general, capital is not trans- ferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities may be sold only to nonresi- dents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of foreign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of funds at the current rate of exchange for investment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors and professional portfolio managers for portfolio investment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank will grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty, and the European Atomic Energy Community. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all ap- proved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered securities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir£100,000 must be notified to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to Ir£ 1,500 a donor a calendar year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are considered. Residents require prior exchange control approval (1) to accept loans from nonresidents, irrespective of the currency of such loans, and (2) to accept loans in foreign currency from any source; such applications are consid- ered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing from nonresidents is undertaken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and IRELAND consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Al- though there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial purposes, respec- tively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 21. Following the realignment of exchange rates within the European Monetary System, the inter- vention rates expressed in Irish pounds for the Belgian and Luxembourg francs and the Danish kroner were changed as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner Irish Pounds Old Limits New Limits Upper Lower Upper Lower 1.71755 1.64198 1.57155 1.50241 8.84854 8.45922 8.5830 8.2055 The intervention rates for the deutsche mark, the Netherlands guilder, the French franc, the Italian lira, and the Irish pound remained unchanged. The central rate for the Irish pound in terms of the ECU was fixed at ECU 1 = Ir£0.686799. June 12. Following the realignment of exchange rates within the European Monetary System, the intervention rates expressed in Irish pounds for the deutsche mark, the Netherlands guilder, the French franc, and the Italian lira were changed as follows: 0 .r. . Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 French francs 100 Italian lire Irish Pounds Old Limits Upper Lower New Limits Upper Lower 29.0480 27.7700 30.2845 28.9520 26.2790 25.1228 27.3975 26.1915 11.3375 10.8387 0.055875 0.049560 10.6855 10.2155 0.054338 0.048197 The new central rate for the Irish pound in terms of the ECU was fixed at ECU 1 = Ir£0.691011. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the Shekel. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange trans- actions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when nec- essary in order to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to maintain orderly conditions in the market. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets. At the end of the morning trading session, the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quotations of the day as a representative rate. On December 31, 1982 the representative rate for the U .S. dollar was IS 33.65 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agen- cies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a non- resident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, including trans- fers between nonresidents. Nonresident holders of local currency may convert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together with an amount of local currency not exceeding IS 500. This is additional to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the non- resident traveler for his current visit. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel in either (1) nonresident deposit accounts which may, subject to conditions, be 268 held by exporters and recent immigrants to Israel or (2) PATAM-Restitution accounts which may only be held by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. In addition, all residents may maintain PAT AM ac- counts which are shekel, time or deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. In general, transac- tions on such accounts must pass through shekel as a unit of account. Banks are required to redeposit 95 percent of PAT AM demand deposits and 82 percent of time deposits with the Bank of Israel. PATAM-Restitution accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with autho- rized banks, which must redeposit all of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in restitution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM- Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 for payment of expenses in connec- tion with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM- Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for foreign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Restitution account. Residents who are not holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. With some exceptions, imports are free of licensing and ad- ministrative or quantitative restrictions. Some imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes coffee, specified items of machinery, some meat, fish, and dairy products, sugar, certain textiles, explosives and inflammables, and tobacco. Soybeans are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government. Ex- change to pay for authorized imports is granted auto- matically by the banks upon presentation of proof of the import transaction. A value-added tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. A 3 percent addi- tional du ty, scheduled to be eliminated on April 1, 1983, is levied on all imports subject to the value-added tax. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invis- ibles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a traveler for each journey, of which up to US$500 may be in bank notes and the balance in traveler's or bank checks. Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in this allowance. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel bank notes. Nonres- ident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$3,000 and may also take out up to IS 500 in Israel bank notes. This is in addition to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the nonresident traveler during his current visit. Commercial banks are autho- rized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality control. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be surrendered or held in a PAT AM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable move- ments in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the shekel against five major currencies, namely, the U .S. dollar, pound sterling, Netherlands guilder, French franc, and the deutsche mark. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles mus t, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amounts of Israel bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these investments. Approved investments (loan and equity) are granted exemption from the compulsory deposit require- ment. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "approved enterprises," "approved investments," or "ap- proved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to enterprises in selected fields of production that are (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, transportation, and agriculture; (2) established in priority areas; or (3) export oriented or in the field of import substitution in some specific lines of production. Approved investment or ISRAEL approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan should not be less than seven years and the rate of interest not more than 8 percent. Certain restrictions apply to borrowing in foreign currency by residents. Since November 1979 a freeze has been in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by nonbank residents. Suppliers' credits and loans with maturities of at least 30 months are exempt from the freeze as well as the deposit requirement. Nonbank residents may, however, contract loans in foreign cur- rencies from resident banks subject to an interest surcharge of 1 percent. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets, although residents may invest in foreign securities through local banks. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank accounts. In addition, residents traveling abroad may maintain limited sums in foreign accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were pur- chased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Gold Under the regulations concerning the purchase, sale, and holding of gold, there are four categories of gold for various purposes, as follows: (1) Bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. (2) Bullion for investment, or certificates con- ferring a right to gold bu l l ion, may be bought or sold only through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (3) The following bullion coins are at present included in a list of gold coins for investment: (a) Krugerrands of South Africa; (b) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (c) 50 pesos of Mexico; (d) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (e) sovereigns of Great Britain; (f) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (g) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. These coins may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (4) Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value added tax of 15 percent. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments June 75. A 3 percent additional ad valorem duty was introduced for a period through April 1, 1983 on all imports subject to the value-added tax. Payments for Invisibles June 15. A travel surcharge, at the rate of IS 600 a trip, was introduced in respect of foreign travel by residents. (The surcharge was terminated on September 30, 1982.) Exports and Export Proceeds March 2. The export insurance scheme for unfavor- able developments in domestic currency costs relative to the average weighted exchange rate of the Israel shekel against five major foreign currencies was extended for the whole year, with effect from January 1, 1982. The premiums for exports to Europe for delivery in 1983 varied between 3.3 percent and 5.1 percent, and for other exports between 6.2 percent and 8.9 percent. Capital May 13. The interest surcharge on foreign currency loans from local banks was reduced from 7 percent to 5 percent. In addition, the compulsory deposit requirement with respect to direct foreign currency borrowing from abroad by nonbank residents was reduced from 30 percent to 23 percent of the value of each loan. June 75. A 2 percent surcharge was introduced on proceeds from the sale of domestically traded securities by residents and nonresidents as well as to proceeds from the sale of foreign-traded securities by residents. The Bank of Israel and investment trust funds (other than sales of trust fund certificates) are exempted from the surcharge. June 26. The deposit requirement on direct foreign currency borrowing from abroad was reduced from 23 percent to 15 percent. June 29. The interest surcharge on foreign currency loans from local banks was reduced from 5 percent to 3 percent. July 22. The compulsory deposit requirement on foreign currency loans from abroad was reduced from 15 percent to 5 percent; and the interest rate surcharge on foreign currency loan from local banks was reduced from 3 percent to 1 percent, respectively. August 2. The freeze on direct foreign currency borrowing from abroad by nonbank residents was lifted in respect of loans with maturities of 30 months or more; such loans were also exempted from the compulsory deposit requirement. In addition, suppliers' credits guaranteed by foreign financial entities were exempted from the regulations applying to direct foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank residents. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mech- anism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other curren- cies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. Official rates for 17 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1982 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,370 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Different exchange rates arise for outward transfers of resident-owned capital, for the large majority of which a deposit in lire of 50 percent must be lodged with the Bank of Italy. Outward direct investment and certain types of portfolio investment are, however, normally exempt from the deposit requirement. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, inter- vene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in major convert- ible and externally convertible currencies.3 Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transac- tions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi, or UIC). 1 Currencies officially quoted are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, the ECU, French francs, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The official rate is the average of the "fixing" quotations of the foreign exchange markets in Milan and Rome. 3 These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing of Italian securities in Italy. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are made in internal lire and therefore are not subject to exchange control. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses (1) the net foreign position in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EC currencies and ECUs, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ceiling on their net foreign liability position but are prohibited from maintaining a net foreign asset position; in addition, outstanding net forward transactions against lire are subject to a ceiling set individually for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, there are special arrangements under a debt liquidation agreement. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.4 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for 4 Italians living or working abroad as well as "border area" residents are permitted to maintain with Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in conto valutario currencies. They may be credited w i th remittances (including bank notes) sent directly to the bank from abroad (up to 80 percent of the holder's wage or salary earnings) and with interest on the balance; they may be debited freely for conversion into lire, for withdrawals in foreign bank notes (up to Lit 100,000 for return trips abroad), and for transfers abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area" residents). These accounts may also be held by Italian representatives abroad and by Italian staff employed by international organizations. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, for payments due to residents on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and from other Capital Accounts and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for invest- ments in Italy, and balances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Nonresidents may also maintain "foreign accounts in foreign exchange" to which may be credited foreign exchange receipts from abroad, transfers from other "foreign accounts in foreign exchange," payments from residents for authorized transactions and, in approved cases, receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a Ministerial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, and Reunion), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Associa- tion, and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assist- ance (CMEA), Albania, the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distin- guish between goods that may be freely imported without quantitative restriction and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually com- plete for subzones A/1 and A /2, while very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports from countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. 272 Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 5 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 5 million to Lit 50 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 50 million in value an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. Where settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation, the importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place within 360 days after importation; such payments require the prior approval of the UIC if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days after the date of importation, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the Ministry of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 120 days before importation, except that a 10 percent advance payment may be made up to 360 days before importation. Advance payments in excess of Lit 5 million must be made with foreign currency borrowed from authorized banks. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 100 million, an advance deposit of 5 percent is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject, in some cases, to a limit for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for payments for invisibles provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Their authority to sell ex- change for remittances as grants and aid is limited to Lit 300,000 a year, and approval of the UIC is required for transfers by Italian immigrants if the amounts exceed certain limits or if the transfer is to a country other than the country of origin. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for payments, subject to a limit of Lit 400,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for services are governed by the same provisions regarding advance and deferred payments as are payments for imports. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. All contracts for insurance of ships and aircraft must be approved by the Ministry of Industry. Approval is also required for contracts in excess of Lit 5 million for services rendered by motion picture artists and techni- cians who are not residents of an EC member country. In addition, approval is required for the following transac- tions if involving residents of countries that are not members of the IMF: repairs to ships and aircraft which are not urgent and necessary for safety of operation; expenditures in excess of Lit 5 million a month incurred by press agencies and correspondents of dailies and periodicals; and contracts in excess of Lit 5 million for the services of company managers, self-employed per- sons, athletes, and entertainers other than motion picture artists and technicians. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1,100,000 a person a year for tourism. Authorized banks may grant foreign exchange without limit for business, medical treatment, and education, provided that they are satisfied that this is justified in view of the duration and purpose of the trip. The limit on the amount of Italian bank notes that can be taken out is Lit 200,000.5 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank notes that they have previously declared upon entry, subject to a limit of the equivalent of Lit 300,000 a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 200,000 in Italian bank notes. However, the export of Italian bank notes in denominations larger than Lit 50,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Espori) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 5 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 5 million to Lit 50 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 50 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. If settlement takes place more than 360 days before exportation or more than 120 days after exportation, the exporter must effect the payments operations related to his export transactions through an authorized bank as his bank of domicile. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases such receipts require the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement of at least 90 percent is to take place within 120 days after exportation, and the balance within 24 months. For settlements between 120 and 360 days after exportation, the approval of the UIC is required. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the Ministry of Foreign Trade or of the Autonomous Agency for Export Credit Insurance (SACE), depending on whether the maximum delay granted to the foreign 5 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 30,000 a day in domestic bank notes and coin, and the equ iva lent of Lit 50,000 a day in foreign notes and coin. ITALY importer is longer or shorter than five years, and on whether the transaction will be covered by state insurance. All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 7 days of effective receipt. Proceeds in U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European currencies may be re- tained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for up to 7 days, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for autho- rized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the UIC or among themselves. In cases where documenta- tion is not in order at the time of surrender, proceeds may be posted to "Ordinary Waiting Accounts" for a period of up to 15 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary documents are not received until after the 15- day waiting period, the proceeds must be assigned to the UIC upon completion of the transaction and will be converted into lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the waiting period. Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each payment, and in certain circum- stances, in foreign bank notes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance com- panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convert- ible European currencies; unutilized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain foreign bank notes left over from trips abroad above the equivalent of Lit 50,000 but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and Lit 200,000 in Italian bank notes, in denominations not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free, but most loans from nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively; long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresi- dents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relation- ship, and some loans from certain German institutions to identified Italian residents do not require authorization. Short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY not connected with commercial operations or the perfor- mance of services) from EC countries also do not require authorization. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, portfolio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the amount transferred (25 percent for certain investment fund securities investing at least 50 percent in Italy, but mutual funds investing entirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a non-interest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addition, when foreign invest- ments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regard- less of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release re- quires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Reinvest- ments of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original investment was made prior to July 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EC institutions are also exempt. Outward direct investment transactions have generally been given an ad hoc exemption. Prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for an Italian company to establish an overseas financial holding company; the parent company must, inter alia, submit annual audited accounts of such a holding company to the Ministry. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regula- tions. Foreign investments of any kind, including both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any form and without any limit .6 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the invest- ment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (after crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those estab- lished for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). 6Financial investment, that is, investment not intended to establish permanent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regula- tions governing direct investment are also not applicable to partici- pations in "holdings" abroad of any kind. 274 Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 300,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any kind (including mutual funds ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authori- zation from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including the investment of at least 50 percent of their portfolio in Italian securities and the establishment of a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authori- zation to purchase real estate in EC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy and, for issues above Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to interna- tional institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified docu- ments to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. In relations with EC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the perfor- mance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected after examination of the docu- ments by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EC countries as indicated above. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for industrial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unre- fined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Exports of wrought and semimanufac- tured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licensing. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to value-added tax but such a tax is applied to subsequent sales; at the end of 1982 this rate was 18 percent. Importation and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country are prohibited in the absence of a special authorization. Imports of other gold coins for numis- matic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 percent. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 22. As part of changes in the European Monetary System, effective February 22, 1982 the central rate of the ECU was fixed at Lit 1,305.13 and the bilateral central rates and intervention rates for the lira against the Belgian franc and Danish krone were defined as follows: Belgian franc Danish krone Central 29.20 159.477 Buy ing 27.50 150.20 Selling 31.005 169.33 June 14. As part of changes in the European Monetary System, effective June 14, 1982 the central rate of the ECU was defined as Lit 1,350.27 and new bilateral central rates and rates for intervention for the lira against the EMS currencies were declared as follows: Belgian franc Danish krone Deutsche mark French franc Irish pound Netherlands guilder Central 30.0258 163.987 578.574 204.157 1,954.05 523.419 Buying 28.28 154.44 544.90 192.27 1,840.32 492.96 Selling 31.88 174.12 614.33 216.77 2,074.80 555.77 Imports and Import Payments February 5. The advance deposit requirement in- troduced on May 28, 1981 was abolished with effect from February 7, 1982. In addition, payments for imports of goods and services before the contractual due date were prohibited until February 28, 1982. April 17. It was announced that advance payments for imports of goods and services before the contractual due date continued to be prohibited. June 22. Importers were allowed to extend repayment of their foreign currency debt to Italian banks for up to 540 days, if their operation was initially supported by a loan of up to 90 percent of the value of the contract. Payments for Invisibles July 14. The administration of the regime of foreign exchange allowances for business was put under the responsibility of the authorized banks. ITALY Exports and Export Proceeds March 30. A regulation was introduced, specifying that the settlement of export credits with respect to nonresidents should take place: (a) within 120 days in cases of individual transactions amounting to not less than 90 percent of the value of the credit, and (b) within 540 days in cases of export credits assisted by bank financing (in foreign currency) equal to at least 80 percent of the value of the credit. April 17. The maximum period for the postponement of settlement in foreign currency of exports of goods and services was reduced from 120 days to 60 days. The period, however, remained at 540 days when export credits were assisted by bank financing in foreign currency. In addition, the period during which foreign exchange deposited in foreign exchange accounts should be drawn down, as well as the maximum period for the surrender of foreign exchange, was reduced from 15 days to 7 days. The period of validity of "ordinary waiting accounts" was reduced from 30 days to 15 days. June 17. It was announced that foreign exchange export financing could no longer be repaid prior to payment for the exports by the foreign buyer, except in particular instances on presentation of the document of transaction and with the authorization of the Exchange Office; only in these latter cases could the banks engage in prefinancing arrangements of up to 540 days. September 15. The Ministry of Foreign Trade ex- tended the time allowed for lagged settlements on account of exports from 60 days to 90 days (the permitted lag was cut from 120 days to 60 days in April). November 10. The Ministry of Foreign Trade issued a decree requiring exporters of goods amounting to at least Lit 5 million, for which fu ll payment would be delayed for up to 360 days, to get foreign exchange financing from Italian banks amounting to 70 percent of the credit denominated in foreign exchange. The decree also extended from 90 days to 120 days the maximum period for the lagged settlement of export proceeds. Capital February 8. The deposit requirement on foreign cur- rency purchases by residents, which was scheduled to be phased out at the end of February 1982, was abolished. August 9. The Ministry of Foreign Trade issued a new decree under which any Italian company seeking to set up an overseas financial holding company was required to obtain prior approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In addition, the parent companies would have to show annual audited accounts of the holding companies and the subsidiaries and obtain prior approval of the Ministry for their holding companies to acquire new subsidiary or holding companies. The Ministry would monitor the distribution of the profits of majority Italian- owned holding companies abroad and would require timely notification of any changes in the shareholding of Italian residents. Furthermore, a requirement was in- troduced that any Italian individual or company should notify the Exchange Office of any interest in a foreign holding company exceeding 10 percent. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 — F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from cpuntries outside the West African Mone- tary Union, and one of 2.50 a mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surren- dered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or sudsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Ivory Coast do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are !The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 276 normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Under a decree that came into force on January 1, 1982, all imports are classified into four categories, as follows: (a) prohibited imports (e.g., wheat, flour, and a specified type of coffee-husking machine); (b) import items subject to import licenses obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 25,000, f.o.b. (e.g., paints, matches, detergents, iron or steel tubes, man-made fabrics, articles of leather, footwear, and carpets); (c) import items requiring a declaration of intent to import; and (d) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import; in the last two cases, (c) and (d), the requirements apply only to individual transactions exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b. As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume quotas. Imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any country; however, as mentioned above, when valued f .o .b. at CFAF 100,000 or more they are subject to the submission of a declaration of intent to import or to prior authorization, and when the value f .o .b. exceeds CFAF 1.5 million or more they are subject to mandatory preshipment inspection by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, in order to control their price, quantity, and quality. Tariffs have been raised for certain goods that compete with local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by annual volume quotas. Special ceilings have been set for selected imports from certain countries having low production costs with which the trade balance has been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution consistently in large deficit. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annually. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value also must be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a docu- mentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment, if the commodities have already been im- ported. Effective June 15, 1981 foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required downpayment is made. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and ship- ment of goods must be within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for imports in eligible cases must not extend beyond one month for certain clearly specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely, at any time, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten). For business travel a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, the IVORY COAST amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricul- tural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying country, export receipts must be collected and repa- triated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such operations require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15, 1981 at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made in Ivory Coast by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans re- quires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The value-added tax on imports was increased as follows: (a) for the normal rate, from 23.5 percent to 25 percent; (b) for the reduced rate, from 10.5 percent to 11 percent; and (c) for the higher rate, from 33.5 percent to 35 percent. January I. A decree issued on December 13, 1981 came into effect, classifying imports into four categories, as follows: (a) prohibited imports; (b) im- ports requiring an import license—obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 25,000, f .o .b .; (c) imports requiring a declaration of intent to import — obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b .; and (d) imports requiring both a declaration of intent to import and prior authorization— obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, which are identical except for the commission mentioned below, were J$l.781423 = US$1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar, and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in certain major currencies.2 The Bank of Jamaica sets daily official buying and selling rates for dealings with the banks on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York or London. The Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers. For spot dealings with commercial banks in the major currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 percent is charged on sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.375 percent on sales of non-CARlGOM currencies and a discount charge of 0.125 percent on purchases of these currencies. For CARICOM currencies, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 percent on sales and! a discount charge of 0-25 percent on purchases. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, payments under the Special Retained Account,3 and transfers from External Accounts, all foreign exchange payments re- quire the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jamaica; they sell foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in turn purchase foreign exchange from lOn January 10, 1983 a dual exchange market arrangement was introduced, under which settlements in respect of traditional exports, exports to CARICOM countries., specified invisibles and essential imports are effected at the official exchange rate; all other exchange transactions are to be conducted in a parallel market operated by the commercial banks at a freely determined rate. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U .S. dollars, and the currencies of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM). The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Bar- bados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3On January 10, 1983 it was announced that the Retained Accounts (with the exception of those held by in-bond merchants) would be phased out, together with the Special Retained Accounts. the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency.4 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open Exter- nal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents, pro- vided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for invest- ment in Jamaica dollar securities or local mortgages, or both. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. As an exception to the surrender requirement for foreign exchange, approved importers may open special foreign exchange accounts in commercial banks in Jamaica; payments from such accounts can be made only for authorized expenditures. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in South Africa are prohibited. A small number of goods may be imported freely from virtually all sources under an open general license.5 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin.6 For some goods, licenses are not normally 4 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 5For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except South Africa. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 6As part of the changes introduced on January 10, 1983, import licenses were replaced by import permits issued to importers up to specified value quotas for items not on the restricted list. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARICOM .7 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica, and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the importer must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment. Exchange Control approval is required for advance payments. The Deposit Scheme for the payment of arrears was discontinued as of December 21, 1982. Consequently, local importers and other foreign currency debtors are no longer required to deposit the Jamaica dollar equivalent of foreign currency commitments with their commercial bank before submitting the applications to the Bank of Jamaica for processing. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufactured domestic- ally. In addition, a 10 percent stamp duty tax is applied to imports, with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs du ty. In December 1978 the authorities initiated a scheme whereby, within certain limits, priority for access to foreign exchange is granted to those importers who qualify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export performance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income from emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for family maintenance, and cash gifts. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for family mainte- nance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional reasons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica 7For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas is treated as a CARICOM member country. 280 and to daily limits of US$125 a day for the United States and US$175 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their gross salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica bank notes not exceeding J$20 and other bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica carrying more than US$500 or its equivalent must declare the foreign exchange they bring in or take out of Jamaica. Exports and Export Proceeds* All goods valued at not more than J$300 ( f .o .b .) may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited l is t .9 Where the value exceeds J$300, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. How- ever, with the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, certain exporters may retain an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commitments, as may be necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a traveler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in or take out Jamaican currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currencies, unless they can prove that they had purchased with foreign currency an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. 8Und er modifications made on January 10, 1983, an arrangement was introduced under which exporters of nontraditional products were allowed to retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in the form of negotiable claims; the claims provided automatic access to import permits for spare parts, capital goods, and raw' materials. 9The list comprises A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, South Africa, and U .S .S .R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved, unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Foreign exchange is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will at any time be able to repatriate his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either di- rectly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not per- mitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in ten equal installments, subject to a maximum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous undertaking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can JAMAICA satisfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emigrated abroad and to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies. Between January 1977 and March 1979 principal payments for private nonguaranteed debt were not being released. Applications received up to June 1978 for the remittance of principal were placed in the Deposit Scheme and were released between April and December 1979. The balance of outstanding private, nonguaranteed debt has been consolidated with repayment scheduled over a 70-month period which began in January 1980. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments December 2 7. The Deposit Scheme was discontinued under which importers (and others with accounts payable in foreign exchange) were required to deposit with the commercial banks the Jamaican dollar equivalent of their foreign exchange obligations before submission of docu- ments to the Bank of Jamaica. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 3 J, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The au- thorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The prin- cipal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1982 was ¥ 235.30 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have underly- ing authorized transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments are under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Bank of Japan, as agent for the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 79 items, 27 of which have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the remaining items have been notified as falling under the state- 282 trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state trading include certain dairy prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw silk, raw and manufac- tured tobacco, poppy straw, raw opium, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require the prior approval of the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without any limitation, subject to verification by foreign exchange banks. Gifts and donations to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to rela- tives abroad, as well as other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without l im i t. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any foreign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 million. Overseas deposits by resident individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 3 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, securities, etc., are permitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. Exports of passenger cars to the United States are subject to quantitative limits for the two-year period ending April 30, 1983; thereafter they will be monitored on a monthly basis for a 12-month period. Exports of passenger cars to certain other major markets were expected to be lower than in the previous year. At the end of 1982, there were 53 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Of these, 42 required prior notice of exporters' agree- ments in respect of export transactions, 11 required prior approval of manufacturers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 8 were reinforced by an export transactions license requirement. In addi- tion, 195 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist countries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e .g ., tungsten ore), or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimport require individual licenses; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open account or those involving payment later than one year after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are permitted unless specifically restricted. Such specific restrictions may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the minister or ministers concerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Other transactions are normally free, although in many cases must be reported. Under emergency condi- tions, most capital transactions not subject to specific restrictions may be subjected to prior approval; emer- gency conditions are defined as situations where a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilib- rium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to adversely affect Japan's money or capital market. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, other types of investment that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisi- tion of 10 percent or more of the shares of a listed company by a single foreign investor; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with more than one-third foreign ownership is also subject to the provisions for direct investment. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the Minister or Ministers JAPAN concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment w i th other countries. As a transitional measure, Japanese enterprises may be "des- ignated" by the minister concerned if a large degree of foreign ownership might be considered likely to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, or the performance of the economy. For such designated enterprises, any foreign acquisition of stock that would raise the proportion of foreign own- ership above a stated level (generally 25 percent) would be subject to provisions similar to those for direct investment regulations. Acquisition of securities for portfolio through desig- nated securities firms can be freely made, but acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice without a waiting period. Issues of securities abroad by Japanese enter- prises (or guarantees related to such issues) or nonresi- dent acquisition of real estate in Japan other than for personal use are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subjected by the Minister of Finance to suspension or modification if in his opinion the transaction might adversely affect (1) domestic and international money markets, (2) Japan's international reputation, (3) business activities of a sector of the Japanese industries or the smooth perform- ance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. Prior approval is required for the issue of Euro-yen bonds by nonresidents. Other transactions by nonresidents may be generally carried out freely. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, usance exceeding one year, issue of yen-denomi- nated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice w i th a 20-day waiting period. The criteria for suspension or modifica- tion of specific aspects of such transactions are as in the preceding paragraph. Foreign currency deposits overseas by residents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject ind iv idua l ly to controls over their overall net position in foreign cur- rency (their oversold or overbought position), and limits are also applied to the net spot oversold position. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long- term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign currency or yen deposits of nonresi- 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN dents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve requirements adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion is free from licensing, but such transactions require notifi- cation to a customs house. Futures trading in gold other than by designated companies is subject to exchange controls. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 25. The Ministry of Finance decided to lend U.S. dollars to Japanese importers from its foreign exchange special fund account for emergency imports, up to a total of US$500 million, in order to promote imports of important goods conducive to the easing of trade frictions. January 30. As a means to ease access of foreign goods to the domestic market, the Government an- nounced a package of measures designed, inter alia, to simplify import-testing procedures. The package relates to a wide range of products, including motor vehicles, cosmetics, Pharmaceuticals, electric appliances, farm implements, sporting goods, chemicals, and food addi- tives. Specific improvements take the form of bringing Japanese standards on goods in line with international ones, accepting foreign-testing results, clarifying and quantifying product standards, and simplifying import- testing procedures. April 1. Japan reduced tariffs on 1,653 items with effect from April 1, 1982, two years ahead of the agreed schedule under the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. As a result, the average tariff rate for these imported items was reduced from an average of 8 percent in 1981/82 to 6.75 percent in fiscal year 1982. May 28. The Government announced that with effect from April 1983 it would eliminate import tariffs on 96 items and lower them on 119 other items. This measure formed part of an eight-point trade liberalization package which included increases in import quotas on farm products, proposals for foreign businessmen or officials to participate in deliberations on revisions of import standards, an increase in the number of retailers handling imported tobacco products, and a government statement of welcome for foreign direct investments in Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. Japan agreed to extend for a second year its voluntary export restraint arrangement with the United States, under which shipments of passenger cars would be limited to the same level (1.68 million units) as had been agreed for the period April 1981-March 1982. May 28. An agreement was reached whereby Japanese passenger car exports to Canada for the period April 1 — December 31, 1982 would be limited to 120,000 units, about 20,000 units less than the volume in the compara- ble period in 1981. Capital January 25. The Ministry of Finance decided to lend U .S. dollars to Japanese importers from its foreign exchange special fund account for emergency imports, up to a total of US$500 million, in order to promote imports of important goods conducive to the easing of trade frictions. March 4. Securities companies, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, suspended temporarily their sales of zero coupon bonds to Japanese residents. April 1. A new banking law came into effect. April 1. The maturities for yen-denominated loans to nonresidents were reduced from 15 years to 12 years for borrowing by international agencies. April 16. Following its regular review, the Ministry of Finance started to increase yen-dollar swap limits for foreign banks operating in Japan. May 1. As part of concerted action, the Government announced a number of sanctions against Argentina, including the suspension of the granting of official credits. May 13. Priority categories on overseas yen lending were removed, thereby permitting Japanese banks to lend yen on a long-term basis to borrowers of their choice. June 30. In a revision of overseas banking rules, Japanese banks were permitted to open two additional overseas branch offices in the two fiscal years 1982 and 1983. Establishment of representative offices continued to be unrestricted. September 28. In a modification of the procedure for issuance of yen-denominated foreign bonds, it was decided that the annual queuing system would be eliminated, and that the issuance program by Japanese main securities firms would be prepared on a quarterly basis beginning January 1983. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Jordan dinar for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U .S. dollar were US$2.8531 and US$2.8369, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.7578 and £ stg. 1.7473, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currenciesl are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Forward exchange transactions in U .S. dollars against the Jordan dinar are permitted in specified cases. For corporations or projects of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising repre- sentatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and of the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Security Com- mittee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except those of Jordanian goods to neighboring Arab countries or, excluding fruits and vegetables, up to JD 500 to other countries and re- exported goods of foreign origin up to JD 1,500 in value) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an autho- rized bank in Jordan, or in Jordan dinars from a non- resident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency; these accounts may be credited only with approved funds. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency, and the interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may maintain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that such deposit accounts are credited with foreign currencies from any source and that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 30,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may open accounts in foreign curren- cies without limits for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 30,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency may be opened at the Central Bank by governmental and semigovernmental entities, as well as the specialized lending institutions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital national interest (includ- ing those companies in which the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capital), provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1.0 million. This ceiling could be raised to JD 3.0 million in certain cases. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 4 percent of the c. & f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when 2These include carbonic acid; some nonalcoholic beverages; ciga- rettes; secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old; and military uniforms. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olive oil, and some other agricultural commodities may be prohibited in good crop years. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior central bank approval, which normally is given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 15 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United Kingdom). Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' depen- dents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.3 No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted an- nually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a month for Kuwait and JD 50 for the United Kingdom) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresi- dents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own country. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Nonresidents working in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordanian dinar account; if they do not have such acounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 monthly with a total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 annually. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accor- dance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered within six months of shipment. Exempt from this requirement are the proceeds from exports of foreign goods with a value of less than JD 1,500, of Jordanian products to neighboring Arab countries, and proceeds of up to JD 500 from exports (excluding fruits and vegetables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if bank notes and traveler's checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coin.4 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limitation, in any convertible currency. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual install- ments in any convertible currency. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Com- panies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Devel- opment Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transfer- able in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are 3 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 4 Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution available only to nonresidents and domestic numisma- tists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recom- mendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central Bank. Changes during 1982 Prescription of Currency May 10. The Special Clearing Account agreement with Turkey was terminated, and the previously sus- pended bilateral payments agreement with Egypt was also effectively terminated. JORDAN 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 14.06 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U .S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank 's buy ing and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent below and above the rate thus determined. On December 31, 1982 buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were K Sh 12.7058 and K Sh 12.7440, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currenciesl are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Additional effective exchange rates arise from an advance import deposit scheme. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks in sterling and U .S. dollars to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U .S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the administra- tion of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for current invis- ibles, and some capital payments. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director of Internal Trade to the Central Bank. The quota system is administered by the Import Quota Allocation Committee (IQAC) and the Official Import Committee (OIC), both of which are composed of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, Industry, and Planning, and the Central Bank. The IQAC, under the Ministry of Com- merce, allocates quotas to individual importers, wh i le the OIC, under the Ministry of Finance, sets global quotas. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agricul- tural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. 'B u r u n di francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania sh i l l ing s, Ugan- dan sh i l l ings, and Zambian kwacha. 288 Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Govern- ment of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, w i th exchange control approval, desig- nated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South Afr ican currency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya .2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. All imports are classified into three schedules (Schedules I, IIA, and IIB) and are subject to import licensing. All private sector imports require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders are placed. Schedule I contains high-priority items, for which licenses are automatically approved by the Director of Internal Trade, and foreign exchange is, in principle, to be expeditiously allocated by the Central Bank. In practice, the automaticity of foreign exchange allocation was suspended during 1982, reflecting the foreign exchange situation. Schedule IIA is subdivided into IIA- special, which includes high-priority items whose impor- tation requires authorization by a state agency, and IIA- ordinary, wh ich comprises nonluxury consumer goods. Schedule IIB contains items that are domestically pro- 2 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than f ive years from the date of acquisition. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duced or whose substitutes are available from domestic industry, and luxury consumer goods. Importation of items in Schedules IIA and IIB is limited to importers who have been granted foreign exchange quotas. Quotas for the high-priority items in Schedule IIA-special are set so as to satisfy expected demand, and import licenses up to the quotas are given automatically. The importers' quotas for items in Schedule IIA-ordinary are flexible, in that they are usable for any items within that category, provided that an import license has been issued. The importers' quotas for Schedule IIB, on the other hand, are item-specific. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 percent of the amount of the application; the fee is refundable if such applications are not approved. When an exchange allocation license has been ob- tained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports with an f .o .b. value in excess of K Sh 25,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quan t i ty, and price by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Central Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and author- ized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports un t il this "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Some imports are subject to a temporary import deposit requirement of 50 percent or 10 percent of the c. & f. value, or 100 percent in the case of passenger automobiles and textiles; some commodities are exempt. The deposits bear no interest and are refundable within one month (three months for passenger automobiles and textiles). A surcharge of 1 percent is levied on all imports, collected at the time applications for foreign exchange licenses are submitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized 3 Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educational support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975—76 academic year. KENYA bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigra- tion within that period. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are per- mitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresi- dent equity holdings. The approval process for these remittances slowed down during 1982. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Business travelers to Tanzania and Uganda are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period o f ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 700 a day for a maximum period of 25 days. There is a once-only pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adults, which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance within the preceding two years. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on interna- tional flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenya residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are subject to 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA exchange control approval. Applications for travel tick- ets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Residents may not send abroad more than K Sh 200 a year as a cash gift without specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All regular exporters must be registered with the Central Bank. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Ex- ports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported w i thout special licenses other than exchange control approval. Coffee is exported through the Coffee Marketing Board. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within three months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.4 Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for compen- sation equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value; exporters with annual export receipts in excess of the preceding year's performance are entitled to a 25 percent compensation. All exports other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyrethrum, horticultural products, petroleum prod- ucts, soda ash, and most goods not subject to import du ty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes, except those of Tanzania and Uganda. The import of domestic bank notes is prohibited, except that resi- dents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to South Africa are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a fam i ly un it from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate remittance and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five 4 There are minor exemptions w i th respect to Ethiopian birr and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. 290 annual installments not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted w i th in the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securi- ties, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not generally restricted, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. Local borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold arid acquire gold coins in Kenya for num isma t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement December 10. The exchange rate of the Kenyan shilling was adjusted from K Sh 11.95 = SDR 1 to K Sh 13.74 = SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 13 percent. December 31. The exchange rate of the Kenyan shilling was again adjusted from K Sh 13.74 = SDR 1 to K Sh 14.06 = SDR 1, representing a devaluation of 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade- weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U .S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 747.30 and W 750.30, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buy ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 746.90 and W 750.70, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transac- tions not only in foreign currencies but also between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracting in respect of interbank transactions, but the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer cannot exceed one year. In addition, a forward contract between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank resident customer must be related to a bona fide transaction and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. In cases of forward transactions between the Korean won and foreign currencies, the U .S. dollar, the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen are the foreign currencies covered. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchan- dise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transac- tions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, w i th the exception of those specifically prohibited. The trade programtfor imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfer to other foreign currency accounts, or for remittances from remuneration for services in Korea, purchases of other foreign means of payment, or sales to a foreign exchange bank in exchange for domestic means of payment or payments for approved transactions. The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are on a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On December 31, 1982, out of 7,560 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 1,769 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally ap- proved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. The requirement for 1 In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund 's Articles of Agreement. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA advance import deposits ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis has been suspended with the reduction of the percentage to zero beginning in Febru- ary 1982. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates administra- tively by up to 40 percentage points. The Government also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 percent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1982 it had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 percent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. In addition, Ko- rean companies are authorized to use foreign exchange for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 each trip as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day (if the period of travel is in excess of 10 days), or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses (if the period of travel is in excess of 60 days), and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. The basic individual travel allowance for students is US$2,000; for others, including Koreans working abroad, it is US$1,000. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in 292 foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank, for ascertaining the bona fides of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Ministry of Finance 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. No prior approval is required to hold abroad retained profits not exceeding US$10,000 from Korean direct invest- ment overseas. Under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act, authorization is required for borrowing abroad of more than US$1 million with maturities in excess of three years; for borrowings under US$1 million repay- able within three years, authorization is required under the Foreign Exchange Control Act. There is a limit of US$100,000 on individual borrowings from foreign branches of Korean banks by Koreans living abroad. Foreign bank branches in Korea can enter into swap transactions with the Bank of Korea to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Foreign exchange al- lowance for emigrants is subject to a limit of US$100,000 for each household. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances up to US$20,000; for remittances over US$20,000 authoriza- tion from the Bank of Korea is required. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for industrial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 11,000 a gram at the end of 1982. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement April 23. The spread between buying and selling rates applied by foreign and local foreign exchange banks for foreign currencies was decreased from 0.6 percent to 0.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA July 26. The permissible maximum period for forward transactions between a foreign exchange bank and a customer was lengthened from six months to one year, and the limit on the maturity of forward transactions between foreign exchange banks was abolished. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The advance import deposit requirement imposed on imports financed under deferred or install- ment payments arrangements was reduced from a range of 5-20 percent to zero. July 1. Changes were made in the import system as follows: (a) import restrictions on 15 electronic items were lifted; (b) the basic import tariff rate for 29 items was reduced by up to 80 percent; and (c) import tariff rates for 13 items were increased by a maximum of 100 percent under the emergency tariff system. Exports and Export Proceeds December 1. A new textile agreement covering the period 1982-87 was signed between Korea and the United States, under which Korea would be able to raise its textile shipments to the United States by 0.5 percent to 0.6 percent, depending on items; in addition, re- strictions were lifted on exports to the United States of a total of 110 items, including shirts, sweaters, and coats. Capital October 1. The Enforcement Decree of the Foreign Capital Inducement Act was revised, so as to simplify the procedures for bringing foreign capital (in amounts of US$1 million or less a project) into the country. The revised law also raised the maximum amount of foreign borrowing beyond which prior authorization and report- ing was required. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's major trading partners. For exchange transac- tions with local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets margins of 0.0625 percent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U .S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 30, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.28852 and KD 0.28888, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On April 5, 1963 Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign cur- rencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. * General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial im- ports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely for registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipes. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. Importa- 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. 294 tion of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork or foodstuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used trucks and buses over ten years old, and used automobiles over five years old) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered import- ers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. During 1982 customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods. The maximum customs duty of 30 percent is imposed on a few commodities competing with locally manufactured goods; with the exception of foodstuffs, which are tax exempt, the customs duty on all other import items is 4 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwa i t. These items may be exported in limited quan- tities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammu- nition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re- exports: the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange control restraints on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. With respect to new Kuwaiti companies established with the participation of nationals of coun- tries of the Gulf Cooperation Council, the Kuwaiti national ownership should be at least 20 percent of the capital. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in the stocks of foreign companies in the official Kuwait stock ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange are prohibited, and foreigners may not buy or sell stocks at this exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. KUWAIT 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN), which was introduced by decree on December 10, 1979 to replace the Kip of Liberation at KN 1 = KL 100. On December 31, 1982 the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the National Bank of Laos (the central bank) was KN 10 = US$1. However, all official transactions take place at a prefer- ential exchange rate of KN 35 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the preferential exchange rate. Administration of Control The Bank for Lao Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the National Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the National Bank, which also administers exchange controls. Most foreign trade has been nationalized and applications for imports through official channels must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance. The Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL) carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 percent of the c . i .f. value of each export or import transaction. The SCL directly distributes the imported commodities and pays the import taxes. It values merchandise received under foreign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 percent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirement is imposed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trading arrangements covering all commodity trade with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. The bilateral trading arrangements are for a period of five years and are implemented through annual pro- tocols, with annual limits on the deficits which Laos can incur for transactions with the partner countries; the deficits are in principle to be settled by means of trade transactions within six months from the end of the year of occurrence of the deficit; in some cases, however, such deficits may be converted into long-term loans. Imports and Import Payments The SCL has the monopoly of imports of investment goods, industrial inputs, and basic consumer goods. An 'Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 296 annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try, based on requests furnished by each government ministry, province, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw materials, machinery, and basic commodities, including rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months during the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the year if it is not utilized; state enterprises may modify their import requirements during the year, subject to the approval of the Planning Committee. State enterprises must transfer their export earnings to the National Bank, but once an enterprise has met its planned target for foreign exchange earnings, it may keep 50 percent of additional earnings in a special account at the National Bank; funds in such special accounts can then be used by the enterprise to import machinery and spare parts, as well as to cover certain prescribed operational expenses in foreign exchange. These amounts are not included in the annual import plan. A similar provision holds for provincial governments. The SCL has a monopoly on exports of timber, rice, mineral ore, coffee, cardamom, and stick lac. Individuals are allowed to export and import commodities outside SCL monopoly provided that they submit a quarterly foreign trade plan specifying the way in which their imports will be financed. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Government's payments in foreign exchange during the fiscal year. Payments for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. There is an export tax of 10 percent on all exports except logs, which are taxed at 25 percent, and silk, which is taxed at 40 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank. Capital There is no foreign investment code. All outward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold Residents are prohibited from buying or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of ex- change transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calcula- tion of duties and taxes on goods and services for a given month on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on the middle rate of those currencies during the previous month. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has bilateral payments agreements1 may be made through specific accounts denominated in U .S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammun i t ion, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or during a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, wh ich, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus f ru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and telephone wires and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that import- ers are in possession of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, LL 1.5 per mill for import values between LL 100,000 'Czechos lovak ia, Gu in e a, Poland, and Roman ia; the arrangement w i th Gu inea is inoperative, and those w i th Czechoslovakia and Romania are in the process of term ina t ion. and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilograms; and 40 piastres a kilogram over 2,000 kilograms. The rate of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 percent, and that on alcoholic beverages is LL 4 a liter, or LL 145 for a case of whiskey containing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and amnuH nition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold through the free market. Banks are permitted to pay .interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve requirement; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to foreign currency deposits and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain net foreign currency positions up to a half of the amount of their own capital. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits. Nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 percent of the insured value. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Lesotho is the Maloti, which is equal in value to the South African rand. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$0.9323 and US$0.9303, respectively, per M 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. The South African Reserve Bank provides forward cover; for private sector transactions such cover is given to authorized dealers based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced from time to time. The South African rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, wh ich is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external cur- rency transactions. Authority to approve certain types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade licensing arrange- ments are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions and insurance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Afr ica's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the for- 1 On February 7, 1983 Lesotho abolished the freely floating f inanc ial rand market and liberalized travel allowances and emigration reg- u la t ions. eign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs entry. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to established l im i ts, such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of M 4,000 in a calendar year for an adult and M 2,000 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. The allowance for business travel is M 7,500 in a calendar year. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encour- agement Act, 1969. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual max- imum of M 100,000 a fam i ly un i t. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a max imum value of M 20,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes during 1982 Import and Export Systems March 23. Lesotho became a signatory to a treaty establishing the Preferential Trade Area for East and Southern African States. July 7. Lesotho signed a trade agreement with Zimbabwe. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U .S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation and the National Invest- ment Commission to protect local industry. These items comprise automobile batteries, biscuits, brooms and brushes, crown corks, exercise books and note pads, insecticides, kitchen towels, roofing nails, paint, paper napkins, sugar, toilet tissues, and wheelbarrows. A few items (e .g ., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Imports of rubber footwear, household candles, safety matches, and powdered detergents have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medi- cinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. Petroleum is imported only by the Liberia Petroleum Refining Company, although a private com- pany is the sole distributor of aviation fue l. present required for precious metals, precious stones, elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricul- tural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely, and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certifica- tion of qua l i ty and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberia Produce Marketing Corpora- tion. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 percent du ty exemption on imports of raw materials and ma- chinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributable profits, and a protec- tive tariff on competing imported products. The five- year incentive may be renewed for a further two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice have been temporarily suspended. Export licenses are at Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 15 currencies .' It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U .S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U .S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, wh ich has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Economic Affa irs Committee w i th in the General People's Committee for the Economy. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in convert- ible currencies, usua l ly U .S. dollars or pounds sterling. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made through special accounts denominated in U .S. dollars. All settlements w i th Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is ga in fu l ly employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and ma in ta in a nonresident account in Libyan dinars w i th any autho- rized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Invisibles, below .) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertak- ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contrac- tors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence bu t, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net of the tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qua l i fy, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports for trade purposes are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises, although resi- dent and nonresident firms undertaking development projects may import items needed to further the execu- tion of the project. Importers are required to deal directly w i th producers abroad and not through intermediaries. All imports are subject to licensing. There is a prohibited import list of 86 i tems ,2 mainly consumer and luxu ry goods. Only government agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company con- trolled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits require central bank approval. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Economy and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank w i thout obtaining a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, w i th in two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming 'Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, Tun is ian d inars, and U .S. dollars. These inc lude m ineral water, f ru it ju ice s, ins tant tea, coffee, green vegetables, pou l t ry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic bever- ages, peanu ts, fresh f r u i t, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chande l ie rs, toy g u n s, luxu ry cars, and fu r s. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents; such approval is not necessary for nonresidents if there is an external bank guarantee. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 percent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as transfers to residents undertaking studies abroad, up to limits prescribed for various countries, plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remittances from nonresi- dent accounts maintained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 percent of net salary each month; for those workers whose contracts specify that lodging or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remit- tances up to 90 percent of net salary are permitted. A nonresident wife or the wife of a nonresident, when employed in the country, is permitted to remit abroad up to 60 percent of net salary each month. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresi- dent workers and technicians within the limits men- tioned. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure up to LD 400, the value of which is not deducted from the balances in their nonresident accounts. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these are intended for immediate expenses upon return and may not be spent or exchanged outside the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Addi- tional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota, varying between adults and children. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank 302 within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding LD 20, and other currency notes, traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic devel- opment of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis of the 60 percent to 90 percent rule described above in the section under Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is re- quired and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Com- mercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in Libya only by Libyans. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Secretariat of Economy to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. An official entity, the Commercial Gold Fund, imports processed and unpro- cessed gold and precious metals. The Gold Fund sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes during 1982 Prescription of Currency January 1. The prohibition on exchange transactions with the People's Republic of China was lifted. Imports and Import Payments January 14. Commercial banks were authorized to transfer money abroad without separate central bank approval for foreign contractors to import equipment in accordance with the terms specified in their contracts. In addition, foreign exchange authorization for pur- chases of consumer goods was limited to the alloca- tions for each importing company in the commodities budget. January 28. The 1982 commodities budget was amended to reduce the allocations for personal cars, light trucks, and household appliances by 30 percent and for musical and other entertainment goods by 50 percent. Exchange allocations for four-wheel drive cars, tractors, limestone tiles, and tinned or dry fish were also eliminated. January 31. The importation of books and all other printed matter for personal or commercial use was banned except with permission from the People's Pub- lishing and Distributing Company. May 3. Six items were added to the list of prohibited imports, including a number of luxury items. Payments for Invisibles April 7. The annual allowance to residents for vaca- tion abroad was reduced from LD 750 to LD 300 for adults and from LD 350 to LD 150 for children under 12 years. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. Up to April 1, 1982 the Malagasy franc, maintained a fixed relationship with the French franc at a rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. Effective April 2, 1982 the Malagasy franc has been pegged to a basket of several currencies. The weight assigned to each currency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagas- car adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against eight currencies1 which it quotes. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are considered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. Import licenses, including those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economy and Com- merce. Export authorizations are issued either by that Directorate or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal with the Central Bank only in French francs or in the other quoted currencies. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized trans- actions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 304 used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce before they are permitted to engage in import activities. Imports are grouped into two broad categories: those authorized within the framework of the annual import program and those that are prohibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enter- prises and other importers who are final users of the product. Imports of fruit juices are conditional upon purchases of domestic fruit juices. The import of certain items, including alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government- owned trading firms (Roso, SINPA, and SONACO). Since about mid-1981, it has not been possible— owing to the severe foreign exchange constraints—to adhere to the system of an annual import program. Instead, an ad hoc committee consisting of representa- tives of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, and the commer- cial banks meets on a weekly basis; its task is to administer the limited available foreign exchange through monthly foreign exchange "budgets." Essential imports are being authorized within the limits of these budgets. All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The set- tlement of all import transactions is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. This central bank authorization for each transaction is represented by a certificate, issued by the commercial bank concerned, which is required to clear the merchandise through customs. The import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before shipment when a documentary credit is opened). There are arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For some transactions the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 100,000 a person a year (FMG 50,000 for children under ten). Any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar must be surrendered. For business travel, foreign exchange may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 300,000 a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Applications for additional foreign exchange for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad are generally ap- proved, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 percent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. There have been delays in the remittance of certain payments for invisibles which have led to an accumulation of arrears. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their family in Madagascar, and up to 45 percent for those whose family lives outside Madagascar (100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. There are arrears on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to all destinations require an export permit (autorisation d'exportation) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabiliza- tion office. Export proceeds received in foreign curren- cies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally be- come due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All commercial ex- port transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. The government-owned trading firms (CoROi, Roso, SICE, SINPA, SONACO, and SOMACODIS) have a monopoly over exports of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, pepper, and butter beans. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing MADAGASCAR in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatri- ated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,2 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Planning (the Directorate of the Treasury). Malagasy direct investments abroad3 are prohibited without special authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transac- tion. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special importance to the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualify- ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation). 2 Including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and numismatic items up to 200 grams a fam i ly. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. New ly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement April 2. The Malagasy franc, wh ich was previously pegged to the French franc at FMG 50 = F 1, was pegged to a basket of several currencies. The weight assigned to each currency in the basket was based on the geographical distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. May 15. It was announced that the Malagasy franc would be devalued, effective May 17, 1982, by 13.0 percent in terms of the currency composite to which it was pegged; the measure involved a change from FMG 303.21 = US$1 to FMG 350.92 = US$1, or a devaluation of 13.6 percent. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.21212 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi is determined on the basis of the daily calcula- tions of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1982 the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 1.0942 and MK 1.1025, respec- tively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the South African rand, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency} traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized pay- ments in Malawi kwacha by residents to foreign coun- tries, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments For a number of items2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods3 may be imported under an open general license when originating in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the G ATT (except Poland). For other countries (including Poland) an import license is required for all commodities except certain items that are free from licensing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinemato- graphic films, samples, and advertising materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports from all countries must be made after the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for formal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Payments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. In addition to a 3 percent levy, a surcharge of 20 percent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of origin; the surcharge is calculated on 120 percent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. For certain imports that are channeled through clearing and forwarding agents, a prepayment of 50 percent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges is required. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports require prior approval of the exchange control authorities. For other purposes such as foreign travel, foreign exchange is provided up to certain limits by authorized dealers without prior reference to the ex- change control authorities. The basic exchange allow- ance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, 2Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat f lour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live f i sh, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 A licensing system based on tariff quotas and linked to purchases of domestic substitutes is applied to imports of clothing items under two tariff headings. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. Annual allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and family remit- tances. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are not allowed, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are subject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresi- dents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original 4Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any foreign securities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for ap- proval: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of the departure date from Malawi a sum equal to the original emigration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement April 24. The exchange rate of the Malawi kwacha in terms of its SDR peg was changed from MK 1 = SDR 0.9487 to MK 1 = SDR 0.8250, representing a devaluation of 15 percent. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is deter- mined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote relative stability in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. The buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were M$2.3180 and M$2.3190, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Govern- ment, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account or in any currency other than Israeli and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Ac- counts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever pur- pose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$5,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceed- ing M$5,000 and up to M$2 million, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks; above M$2 million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli Accounts and South African Accounts, re- spectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly un if ied. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restric- tions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from the People's Republic of China are subject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except for items that are perishable or subject to quantitative restriction. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific licensing with quantitative restriction. Movements of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of live animals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from India require a specific license. Imports of primates are pro- hibited from all sources, except under specific license. Payment for permitted imports is allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Raw materials and machinery for the manufacturing sector are eligible for preferential treatment duty as follows: (a) raw materials are subject to a reduced rate of import duty of 2 to 3 percent; (b) industries can be further exempted from this 2 to 3 percent import duty if they comply with the New Economic Policy in terms of equity participation, man- agement, and employment structure; (c) all duties on imported machinery and equipment which is unavailable locally and used directly in manufacturing have been replaced by a system of case-by-case exemption; and (d) import duty drawback can be claimed by any manufacturer, provided that evidence of export perfor- mance and importation of raw materials is submitted. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$5,000. There are no restrictions on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except where exports are valued at more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," and other goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of invest- ments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amounts above M$5,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies in excess of M$ 100,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and South Africa. Commercial banks are discouraged from giving loans to finance investments abroad; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. 310 Residents may borrow freely from abroad sums which are individually less than M$ 100,000; beyond that amount, permission must be obtained from the Control- ler, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds would be used. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided these payments are in accordance with the approved terms and conditions. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign currency by banks in Malaysia must be for business and productive purposes in Malaysia, including (but not exclusively) payment for the import of goods and services, payment of interest or repayment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payment for the purchase from nonresidents of immovable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares, provided that, the purchase of property or shares, (a) the Foreign Investment Commit- tee has given its approval, (b) the amount borrowed does not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million, and (c) repayment of principal will not be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from residents. The approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempted from payment of the 15 percent withholding tax. Gold Residents of Malaysia are permitted to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export gold, provided that the weight of individual bars and wafers does not exceed 100 grams. A traveler may import, on one's own person or in personal luggage, any number of gold coins issued by the Central Bank of Malaysia but only one piece of any other type of gold coin, medallion, bar, or wafer not exceeding 100 grams in weight. The importation of gold is otherwise regulated by specific license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the policy being to limit such importation to authorized dealers who are required to quote daily buying and selling prices for the wafers that they retail to the public. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments October 22. As part of the tax proposals in the 1983 budget, increases were announced in the import duties on cars, the import and excise duties on liquor, tobacco, and cigarettes. The announcement included the abo- lition of all duties on perfumes, selected cosmetics, cine- cameras, projectors, sound equipment, and computers. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles May 24. The limits of M$10,000 on the importation and M$5,000 on the exportation of Malaysian currency notes were abolished. Capital March 6. Authorization was granted for commercial banks and merchant banks to lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Ma ld iv ian R u f i y a a, wh ich replaced the Ma ld iv ian rupee on J u ly 1, 1981. The market exchange rate of the rufiyaa is set by the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). Standing instruc- tions to the commercial banks require them to buy foreign exchange at Rf 7.00 = US$1 and to sell at a small margin. From March 31, 1982 through the end of the year, the selling rate quoted by the banks was Rf 7.10 = US$1. No margins in respect of exchange transac- tions are off ic ia l ly ma in ta ined. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade con- trols are administered by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Industries, wh ich also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since January 25, 1982 all local transactions between residents and nonresidents, such as the settlement of tourism bills, must be made in local currency. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping balances in foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. There are, in general, no restrictions on imports. However, import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Indus t r ies. Most staple commodities ( inc lud ing rice, sugar, wheat flour, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, w i thout any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations are conducted only after being registered and licensed at the M in is t ry of Trade and Industries. Export of black coral and tortoise she l ls are prohibited, except in the form of a product. Export duties are levied on ambergris exported by a Ma ld iv ian, goods exported by a Maldivian jo in t ly w i th a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exemp t. Exporters of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, w i t h in the period of time specified in the license. In the case of du ty-free exports, exporters may, upon request by the Government, be required to import specified goods in an amount not exceeding 33 percent of the va lue of the goods exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange marke t. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency w i thout any restriction, but must settle accounts in local currency, wh ich must be purchased from official money-changing in s t i tu t ions on ly. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange marke t, and residents do not require permission to ma in ta in foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. Transfers of profits are permitted, and exemptions from taxes other than tourism taxes may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may free ly hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 25. The o f f ic ial rate of Rf 3.93 = US$1 was e l im ina ted, and a un i fo rm rate of Rf 7.50 = US$1 was adopted. The former rate had been used by the Maldives Monetary Au thor i ty for all transactions and by the Government for the accounting of the f ish trade as we ll as for certain imports. March 31. The market rate was changed from Rf 7.50 = US$1 to Rf 7.00 = US$1. Prescription of Currency January 25. The ru f iyaa was made the sole med ium of exchange in Maldives and local transactions in U .S. dollars, which had been prevalent, were banned. Proceeds from Invisibles January 25. Tourist operators who had been permitted to settle accounts in, and accept foreign currency as well as to retain all proceeds, were required to accept on ly local currency in all transactions. Tourists were required to purchase local currency from licensed money chan- gers and institutions only. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the Mali Franc, wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F 0.01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and selling rates for the French franc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French francs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. W i th the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Ma l i 's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries are considered foreign coun tr ies. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral payments agreement accounts1 are operated by the Development Bank of Ma l i. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic Affa irs in the M in is try of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali is an Operations Account coun t ry, set- tlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Ma li francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other countries w i th wh ich no payments agreement is in force are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, 'M a li ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Hunga ry, Morocco, R om a n i a, U . S . S .R ., and V iet Nam. W i th the exception of those w i th the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina and the U . S . S .R ., these agreements are inop e r a t iv e. 312 Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone are nor- ma l ly made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments The import licensing system introduced in 1977 d is t ingu ishes f ive categories of imports: (1) imports subject to quotas and requ i r ing an import license (Re- g ime A); (2) imports admitted freely and requ i r ing only an import certificate (Reg ime B); (3) imports w i thout settlement in foreign exchange (Reg ime C); (4) imports by government monopolies (Reg ime D); and (5) imports subject to special p roh ib i t ions for reasons of secur i ty, pub l ic hea l th, etc. (Reg ime E). Imports originating in a member country of the West A f r ican Economic Commu- n i ty are subject to Reg ime B; some products from EC coun tr ies, such as foods tuffs and other basic necessities not reserved for state monopolies, are also included in Regime B. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxu ry consumer goods and products that compete w i th local p roduc t ion, are subject to quota under Reg ime A, as are all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed d irec t ly from foreign resources, for examp le, from grants, foreign inves tmen t, or devel- opment loans, are admitted v i r tua l ly freely under Re- g ime C. Specified foods tuffs ( in c lud ing sugar, tea, sa l t, m i l k, and canned tomatoes), tobacco products, and fertilizers can only be imported by state agencies designated as monopolies under Regime D. Imports from Israel, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance w i th an annual import program. A license is va l id for six mon ths bu t, if necessary, may be extended for a fu r ther three mon ths. However, the system is implemented f lex ib ly, and licenses in excess of the program are issued for ju s t i f ied need or unforeseen c ircums tances; thus in both 1978 and 1979 licenses issued exceeded the amount or ig ina l ly programmed. Imports may be made by either private importers or state enterprises, among the most important of wh ich is the Societe Ma l ienne d'Import-Export (SOM IEX ), w i th its monopoly over basic commodities. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equ iva lent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for ch i ldren under 10), wh ich may be allotted on several occasions dur ing the year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Ma li must be surren- dered. For business travel, the allocation is the equ iva- lent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a m ax imum of MF 500,000 a t r ip .2 Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of MF 50,000 in Mali bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of MF 200,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon en try. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Ma li bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries, and any payments instru- ments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement w i th the foreigner's coun try of nationality. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded w i th an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other Operations Ac- count countries, must be repatriated and surrendered w i th in 90 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports to countries outside the West Afr i- can Economic Commun i ty require ind iv idual licenses; those to countries of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved, in pr inc ip le, for SOMIEX. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- 2 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available on ly to persons s u bm i t t i ng an e x it permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. MALI count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Ma l i, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Investment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treat- ment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Ma l ian economy and that are compatible w i th the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regulations. Changes during 1982 Exports and Export Payments November 1. Decree No. 234/PG-RM came into effect, l if t ing restrictions on the marketing of ground- nu ts. In addition, exports of cereals were prohibited in connection w i th the liberalization of the marketing of cereals. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira. The value of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Maltese lira and a trade- weighted basket of currencies1 representing Malta's important trading partners. The daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is derived by adding up the latest dollar values of the currency components of the Maltese lira basket; the closing quotations of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the previous day are used in the computations. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.25 percent is applied between the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in such dealings were US$2.4101 and US$2.4041, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 31, 1982 was £ stg. 1.4932 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which also may give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided they hold fu ll cash cover in Maltese lira or foreign currency for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese lira to an External Account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all coun- tries may be received in Maltese lira from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Maltese lira, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to nonres- 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 314 idents, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and maintain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a nonres- ident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain foreign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities are, in principle, subject to either state-trading or licensing requirements. All im- ports from Japan are banned with the exception of spare parts for products already in Malta. The importation of goods which can be produced domestically is restricted; this restriction covers more than 60 different products, most of which are leather goods, textile goods, and meat products. Certain imports are subject to state trading. These include commodities regarded as essential, such as tinned milk, butter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, rice, sugar, tinned meat and f ish, cheese, coffee, tea, fruit, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provi ^d that the prescription of currency regu- lations are complied with and that supporting docu- ments, including the customs entry form, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep foreign currency accounts to settle import pay- ments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval authority for most types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. For residents, there is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of Lm 250 a person a trip, and a business travel allowance of Lm 250 a trip or Lm 50 a day (for up to 30 days a trip), whichever is the larger. There is also an allowance for educational expenses abroad of Lm 3,000 a person for an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution academic year .3 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no i l l ic it capital outflow is invo lved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount bought in by them and declared to the customs on entry. The transfer of profits, d iv idends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, wh ich is normally g iven, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted only w i th insurance companies that are du ly licensed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of dependents abroad are allowed on application showing evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported free ly. However, certain textile products for export to EC countries are subject to licensing. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered w i th in six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but w i thout an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin wh ich are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on their merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the M in is try of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,4 w i th the exception of certain special 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and s t u d y, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the t ime l i v i ng in Ma l ta and either have l ived there for at least three years or in tend to con t inue l iv ing there for at least three years. 4For the purpose of th is Ac t, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any en t i ty, whe ther corporate or no t, if (a) it is registered outside Ma l ta, or (b) it has its pr inc ipal place of residence or of bus iness outside Malta, or (c) 20 percent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manne r, whether directly or ind i rec t ly, controlled by one or more nonres ident persons. MALTA cases ma in ly related to economic development. Applica- tions for the acqu is i t ion of property for use as a residence by ind iv idua ls who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta norma l ly are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emi- grate may transfer abroad up to Lm 7,500 for each fam i ly; any excess amount is normally released three years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 22 denominations of gold coin wh ich are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewe l ry, but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tender. The import of gold coin is controlled to ensure that such coins are genu ine ly for num isma t ic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bu l l ion, and manufactured or sem imanufac tured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bu l l ion only for the purpose of supp ly ing jewelers and other indus t r ial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also re- quires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import du ty. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 2. A ban was imposed on the repatriation of Maltese currency notes. Imports and Import Payments November 3. A ban was introduced on the import of Japanese goods, w i th the exception of spare parts for products already in Ma l ta. November 20. A ban was introduced on the import of goods wh ich could be produced domestically. (The ban affected more than 60 products, ma in ly leather goods, textile goods, and meat products.) Capital November 20. The provision whereby ind iv idual residents over 18 years of age were permitted to undertake foreign investments up to Lm 500 a year was abolished. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 7982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the pound sterling, the Spanish peseta, and the U .S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised every three months. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U .S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are then compared with the exchange rates prevailing on specified base dates. The arithmetic average of the sum of the weighted variations arising from this comparison results in either a plus or a m inus overall variation of the U .S. dollar in terms of the other currencies in the basket; this variation is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate prevailing on June 29, 1973 (UM 46.041 = US$1), thus obtaining the reference rate for the dollar on the specific day. Daily exchange rates for 15 other currencies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U .S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. The buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were UM 52.59 and UM 53.33, respectively, per US$1. Mauritania confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya within margins of 4.5 percent; at present, it applies margins of zero percent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements w i th other countries u sua l ly take place in convertible currencies. 'Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 316 Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in do- mestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited w i th domestic bank notes. Convertible Ac- counts may be debited for any payment without central bank approval, but payments to and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Only holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transac- tions. Imports of all commodities must be authorized by the Central Bank. The Na t ional Import-Export Corpora- tion ( SON IM EX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. Although there is no formal import program, authorizations can be denied if the volume of imports in any period is deemed excessive. There are some arrears on import payments. Import transactions must be domiciled with an author- ized bank, except in the case of imports ''without paymen t ." After the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quo t ing f . o . b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured w i th the Maur i tan ian State Insurance Company (SMAR ). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Paymen ts for inv i s ib les to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval au thor i ty for certain specified payments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for var ious types of inv is ib les. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten). For business trave l, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to Afr ican countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other des t ina t ions. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from salaries by foreigners wo rk ing in M au r i t an ia is permitted up to varying percentages, according to f am i ly status. At the end of the ir stay in M a u r i t a n i a, they may transfer all the ir assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are perm i t ted to engage in export transac t ions. Export transac t ions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 mu st be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an unde r tak ing to repatriate and surrender the fore ign exchange pro- ceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds mu st be surrendered not later than the due date of the paymen t, wh ich no rma l ly mu st not be more than 60 days after sh ipmen t. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SON IMEX, and exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the Na t ional Indus t r ial and M i n i ng Company ( SN IM ). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in i n v i s i b l es mu st be surrendered. All amoun ts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i t h in four mon ths of the due date of the paymen t. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is proh ib i ted. Capital Transfers of capital between M au r i t an ia and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Maur i tan ia and all foreign coun tr ies are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries re- qu ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts norma l ly are permitted f ree ly, a l though the subsequent inves tment of the funds in Mau r i tan ia may require approval, as indicated be low. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct inves t- MAURITANIA men ts in M a u r i t a n i a2 and M au r i t an i an direct inves tmen ts abroad3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Cen tral Bank has the r ight to request the postponement of the projects w i th in 15 days from receipt of the dec la ra t ion. The f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of inwa rd or ou twa rd inve s tment also requ ires a declara- t ion. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu id a t ion of inves tmen ts, whe ther these are M au r i t an i an inves tmen ts abroad or foreign inve s tmen ts in M au r i t an i a, mu st be reported to the Central Bank w i t h in 20 days fo l low ing each opera- t ion. Direct investments are defined as investments im p l y i ng control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The i s su ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in M au r i t an ia requ i res prior au tho r iza t ion by the Central B ank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Inve s tment Code (Ord inance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for private inves tmen ts in M au r i t an ia and s t ipu la tes that profits and d iv idends accru ing from such inves tment can be trans- ferred f ree ly. Gold Res iden ts are free to ho ld, acqu i re, and dispose of gold in any form in Mau r i tan ia. All imports and exports of gold requ i re prior au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank. Exempt from th is requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated a r t ic les ). Changes during 1982 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 2 I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in M a u r i t a n ia t h at a re d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly und er fo re ign control and those made by branches or s u b s i d i a r i es in M a u r i t a n ia of fo r e ign compan ies. ^ I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh fo re ign compan ies t h at a re d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly con tro l led by persons in M a u r i t a n ia and those made by b ranches or s u b s i d i a r i es abroad of compan ies in M a u r i t a n i a. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 3 J, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mau r i t ius is the Mau r i t ian Rupee, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at Mau Rs 12.0 = SDR 1, or SDR 0.08333 = Mau Rs 1. The middle rates of the Maur i t ian rupee for the pound sterling, the in terven t ion currency, and the U .S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Mauritius are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the pound sterling-SDR rate and the U .S. dollar-SDR rate, respectively. The Bank of M au r i t ius applies margins of 0 .125 percent to the buy ing rate and 0.25 percent to the se l l ing rate in respect of exchange transactions in sterling and U .S. do l lars, based on the fixed Maur i t ian rupee-SDR rate. On December 3 1 , 1 9 82 the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of M a u r i t i us for sterling were Mau Rs 17.5766 and Mau Rs 17.6433, respectively, per £ stg. 1, and for the U .S. do l lar the rates were Mau Rs 10.8466 and Mau Rs 10.8866, respectively, per US$1. Commercial banks are author- ized to deal in sterling and U .S. dollars at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of M au r i t ius for these currencies. Margins allowed between buy ing and se l l ing rates for commercial banks are 1 percent for transactions in pound sterling and 1.5 percent for the U .S. do l la r. Commercial banks' buy ing and se l l ing rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. Forward exchange facilities are made ava i lab le by the Bank of M au r i t ius for industries operating in the Export Processing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on - lend ing to the sugar sector. The m a x im um period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a u n i f o rm margin of 3 percent a year. A stamp du ty of 45 percent is applied to outward transfers of capital (other than bank ing funds) and purchases of gold coin and gold bu l l ion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Maur i t ius under powers delegated to it by the F inanc ial Secretary. The authority for approving v i r tu a l ly all current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes M a u r i t i us dis- t ingu ishes between countries in the former Sterling Area2 and External Account countries. Payments to 'The exchange control regu la t ions of M a u r i t i us d e f i ne currencies as all currencies other than the M a u r i t i an rupee. 2The exchange control regu la t ions of M a u r i t i us de f ine the S te r l ing Area as comprising the Un i ted K ingdom, the Channel I s land s, the Is le of M an, and the R epub l ic of I re land. fore ign 318 residents of former S ter l ing Area countries may be made in rupees to a S ter l ing Area Account in Mau r i t ius or in any currency of the former S ter l ing Area. Payments from residents of the fo rmer S te r l ing Area may be received in rupees from a S te r l ing Area Account in Mau r i t ius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments to residents of coun tr ies outside the former Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in M a u r i t i u s, in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of countries ou ts ide the former S ter l ing Area may be received in rupees from an Ex ternal Account in Mau r i t ius, in s ter l ing from an External Account in the United K ing- dom, or in any non -S te r l ing Area currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in types of nonresident accounts: S ter l ing Area Accounts and External Accounts. S ter l ing Area Accoun ts, wh ich may be opened by persons and f i rms resident in countries of the former S ter l ing Area (see footnote 2) may be credited w i th (1) au thor ized paymen ts by residents of Mau r i t iu s; (2) any transfers from other S te r l ing Area Accounts; (3) any paymen ts from External Accoun ts held in Mau r i t ius or elsewhere in the former S ter l ing Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency or gold by nonresidents of Mau r i t ius. They may be debited for ( 1) payments from residents of the former S te r l ing Area to residents of Mau r i t ius; (2) transfers to other S te r l ing Area Accounts; (3) transfers to Ex ternal Accoun ts in M au r i t ius or elsewhere in the former S te r l ing Area in respect of wh ich the permission of the exchange control au thor i t ies in the appropriate coun try has been g iven; and (4) the cost of purchase of any former S te r l ing Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and f i rms resident outside both M au r i t ius and the former S te r l ing Area. They may be credited w i th (1) authorized payments by residents of Maur i t ius; (2) payments from S te r l ing Area Accounts in respect of wh ich the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appropri- ate coun try has been g iven; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-S ter l ing Area currency or gold by nonresidents of M au r i t ius and the former S ter l ing Area. They may be debited for ( 1) any payments to residents of M a u r i t i u s; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accoun ts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency or gold. In add i t ion to the above, there are also Blocked Accoun ts to wh ich are credited funds owned by persons and f i rms resident ou ts ide Mau r i t ius and realized from inves tmen ts made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as funds representing em ig ran ts' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of M a u r i t i us that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transac t ions. Funds from Blocked Accounts m ay, w i th approval, be invested in Mau r i t iu s. Upon the rea l iza t ion of such inves tmen ts, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Accoun t. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordi- nance. Under the Supplies Control Regulations of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or p roh ib i ted, as specified in the th i rd and fou r th schedu les, respec t ive ly, require import permits from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry; the perm i ts are e s sen t ia l ly for s ta t is t ical and tax purposes. Import perm i ts for certain i tems in the f irst schedule ("controlled goods") that are manu fac tu red locally or considered as l u x u r i es are subject to qu an t i t a- t ive restrictions. Import permits are granted auto- ma t ica l ly for most other items in the f i r st and second (pharmaceutical products) schedu les. In add i t ion to an import license, importers must apply for exchange control approval to make the corresponding import paymen ts, subject to compliance w i th the prescr ip t ion of currency regu la t ions. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and a stamp d u ty of 12 percent based on the c . i . f. va lue is levied on most imports. Importers of goods of lower p r io r i ty may not ava il themselves of supp l iers' cred i ts, and local commerc ial banks are prohibited from ex t end ing credit for such imports. The contracting of supp l ie rs' credit of more than 90 days' duration in respect of other categories of imports requires the prior approval of the Bank of M au r i t iu s, except for imports effected by companies ho ld ing a development certificate or by compan ies in the Export Processing Zone. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les related to imports requ i re the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ie s. Foreign exchange for other purposes, such as foreign trave l, may be provided up to specified l im i ts by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the ex- change control au thor i t ies. The basic travel allowance is the equ iva lent of £ stg. 400 a person for every two' calendar years for travel to any coun t ry. There is a 10 percent tax on all in terna t ional air t icke ts purchased by Mau r i t ian residents. The a l lowance for bus iness travel is the equivalent of £ stg. 50 a day. Applications for exchange for bus iness travel are exam ined by the Bank of Mau r i t iu s. There are es tab l ished l im i ts for paymen ts and transfers to former S ter l ing Area coun tr ies and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of f am i ly support, salary remittances by non -M au r i t i an n a t ion a l s, trade commissions, subscriptions to c lubs and societies, pub- l ish ing r igh ts, adver t is ing outside M a u r i t i u s, roya l t ies, professional and techn ical services, educa t ion, and leave MAURITIUS sa lar ies. App l ica t ions for amoun ts exceeding the stan- dard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Res iden ts and nonres ident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out fore ign currency notes up to the amount of the ir travel a l lowance. Nonres ident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ( 1) articles made who l ly or par t ia l ly of go ld, p l a t i n um, or s i lve r; (2) d iamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are p roh ib i ted, unless permission is obtained from the F inanc ial Secretary. All exports va lued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products va lued at over Mau Rs 50 requ i re a license from the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. The M a u r i t i us Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax rang ing from 6 percent to 13.5 percent, p lus a surcharge of 50 percent thereon, is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than M a u r i t i an rupees mu st be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import compan ies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of t ime to meet paymen ts for imports. Exports of k n it sh i r ts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man -made fibers to the Un i ted States are effected u n d er a b i la te ral export res tra int agreement covering the period up to September 30, 1985. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts from i n v i s i b l es in any currency other than M a u r i t i an rupees mu st be offered for sale to an author- ized dealer. There is no l im i t a t ion on the amount of fore ign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inwa rd t rans fe rs of cap i tal are not restricted. Outward transfers of cap i tal are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of M a u r i t i us may, subject to permis- s ion, t ran s fer a reasonable amount of capital to any coun t ry on payment of a 45 percent stamp d u t y. Non res iden ts requ i re perm iss ion to transfer capital to any coun t ry; transfers are subject to the stamp du ty of 45 percent and, if directed toward a coun t ry outside the former S te r l ing Area by a resident of the former Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies of the former S te r l ing Area coun try con- cerned. Foreign-owned companies may free ly transfer abroad d iv id end s, p ro f i ts, and interest on cap i ta l. Per- m iss ion for repa tr ia t ion of capital is not granted for cap i tal brought in before Ap r il 5, 1966, irrespective of the coun t ry of o r ig in, b u t, in normal c ircums tances, it is g iven for cap i tal brought in on or after that date. Proceeds from the sale, l i q u i d a t i o n, e tc ., of foreign 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS capital that may not be repatriated mu st be credited to Blocked Accounts. Em igran ts may take ou t, at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange and free of stamp d u t y, the equ iv a l ent of Mau Rs 100,000 from the ir Mau r i t ian assets when emigrating to any country; th is f a c i l i ty is ava i lab le upon redesignation as a nonres iden t, wh i ch occurs upon de- parture. The balance of an em ig ran t 's f u n ds mu st be credited for an indef in i te period to a Blocked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 45 percent stamp d u t y. Persons em igra t ing from M au r i t ius are not en t i t led to draw the ir personal travel allowance in add i t ion to the em ig ra t ion fac i l i t ies. Gold Residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies are permitted to hold gold for num i sm a t ic purposes ( i n c l u d- ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal j ew e l ry and o rnamen ts. The import and export of monetary gold are p roh ib i ted, except when made by the monetary au tho r i t ie s. Imports of gold for indu s t r i al purposes are sub ject to a quota and specific import l icense. Exports of articles made who l ly or p a r t i a l ly of go ld, other than jewe l ry con s t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a t rave le r, are proh ib i ted. Payments in respect of pr iva te imports of gold coin and gold b u l l i on are subject to the 45 percent stamp du ty. Imports of certain jewe l ry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement September 1. The special exchange rate applied to gove rnment imports of rice and f lour was e l im in a t ed. Imports and Import Payments July 31. The s tamp d u ty on imports was raised from 5 percent to 12 percent of the c . i . f. va lue of goods. Exports and Export Proceeds August 31. The surcharge app l icab le to the tax on sugar exports was reduced from 75 percent to 50 percent. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. There are two exchange markets, the controlled market and the free market. The exchange rate in the controlled market is adjusted da i ly, based on the differential between the rates of inflation expected in Mexico and its main trading partners and other indicators that include developments in the terms of trade, levels of exports and imports, movements in foreign exchange reserves, and availabil- ity of external f inanc ing. Transactions at the controlled market rate include (a) merchandise export receipts (with some exceptions); (b) payments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, leasings or rents, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than fixed assets; (c) payments of principal, interest, and related expenses resulting from financial and suppliers' credits by the public and private sector; (d) payments of certain imports authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce; (e) expenses in relation to the Mexican foreign service and contribu- tions regarding Mexico's membership in international organizations; and (f) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Bank of Mexico (the central bank ). On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates in the controlled market were Mex$96.43 and Mex$96.53 per US$1, respectively. With certain exceptions (described below), all other transactions are effected through the free market, at a freely determined exchange rate. W i th in the free market no limitations apply to the sale, ownership, or transfer of foreign exchange. As of December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in the free market were Mex$148.50 and Mex$150.00 per US$1, respectively. Certain obligations denominated in foreign exchange and payable in Mexico are settled at a special exchange rate established by the Bank of Mexico. The Bank of Mexico through a coverage exchange system provides foreign exchange for the repayment of foreign debt obligations outstanding prior to Decem- ber 20, 1982 to foreign financial entities and suppliers. All Mexican credit institutions as well as foreign ex- change houses are authorized to operate in the free mar- ket but cannot intervene in forward transactions for pesos, other than in respect of those approved to banks by the Bank of Mexico under the coverage exchange system. As a temporary measure, the amoun ts of foreign exchange in the free market sold by banks to ind iv idua ls and enterprises is made subject to prudential l im i ts. No limits exist on the number of transactions that can be effected by any single ind iv idual or enterprise. Only the exchange facilities located in international airports or the border area are authorized to sell foreign notes. Mexican credit institutions and foreign exchange houses are free to purchase either currency or documents denominated in foreign exchange. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Bank of Mexico. The National Foreign Investment Commission sets policies w i th regard to direct investment in Mexico by foreigners. The exchange control system is adminis- tered by the Bank of Mexico, with Mexican credit ins t i tu t ions carrying out most of the transactions in the controlled market. The Secretariat of Commerce estab- lishes policies w i th respect to import and export controls and import and export duties, and administers import and export licensing procedures. Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents, neither in the free nor in the controlled market, but obligations deriving from the selling of foreign exchange in the controlled market must be made in the currencies approved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance w i th the payments agree- ments w i th Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela, payments to or from those countries must be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Payments to or from Costa R ica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisible transactions must be settled in U .S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal credit and payment agreement between the central banks of these countries. Similar arrangements exist w i th Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce are required for all the items in Mexico's General Import Tariff, the issuance of these licenses may be subject to quantitative restrictions. For some commodities "open- end" import licenses may be granted allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall l im i t. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Secretariat of Commerce; for a small number of luxury items, no licenses are granted. The Secretariat of Commerce is in charge of specifying the list of items for 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO which foreign exchange settlement can be made through the controlled market. In addition, most imports needed for the production of export items have access to the controlled market. All other nonspecified import pay- ments must be settled through the free market. The Bank of Mexico stands ready to sell foreign exchange at the controlled rate for the payment of imports that had been authorized at the preferential rate prior to December 20, 1982. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 percent and 17 percent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of export. Official m in imum prices are applied to about 25 percent of import items, for the purpose of assessing of import duties. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Secretariat of Commerce; this approval is not given if a comparable domestic equiva- lent is available at a price differential not exceeding a range of 15-20 percent. All imports must be accom- panied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. With the exception of imports included in the tariff negotiation rounds of LAI A countries and temporary imports, imports are subject to an import surcharge of 2 percent ad valorem, the proceeds of wh ich accrue to an export trust fund established with the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are generally not restricted. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico, or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies or with foreign companies' branches operating in accor- dance with Mexican law. The payment of principal, interest, and related ex- penses on public and private sector debt w i th foreign financial entities and Mexican commercial banks can be effected through the controlled market. The payment of principal of debt outstanding as of December 20, 1982 is subject to availability of foreign exchange in the Bank of Mexico. Nevertheless, the coverage exchange system will assure availability of foreign exchange. Special procedures apply for the settlement of interest payments due and unpaid by Mexican borrowers, dur ing the period from August 1, 1982 to January 31, 1983 and to foreign financial institutions regarding debt outstand- ing prior to December 20, 1982. Such settlement may be made by peso deposits, equivalent to the amount of interest due in foreign currency, at the controlled exchange rate of the date at which the deposit is made. These deposits are converted into U .S. dollars and transfers to foreign creditors will be made depending on the availability of foreign exchange in the Bank of Mexico. Payments for the Mexican foreign service and contributions to Mexico's membership to international organizations, as well as payment related to expenses of foreign trade are effected through the controlled market. 322 Other payments for invisibles can be made through the free market, without l im i ts. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, and exportation of a few other specified items is prohibited. All merchandise export receipts in excess of Mex$200,000 a week are subject to export surrender requirement in the controlled market. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open special accounts in local currency; only proceeds from exports can be deposited in these accounts. The interest paid on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U .S. dollar plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rates. Exporters are authorized to purchase imported inputs at the controlled market rate, for amounts at least equivalent to the value of their exports. Prior to obtaining the corresponding import licenses, exporters can use up to 20 percent of their proceeds for the repayment of suppliers' credits outstanding prior to December 20, 1982. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to surrender foreign exchange through the controlled market for the payment of wages, salaries, leasings or rents, taxes, etc., and the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets. In-bond industries must effect these foreign exchange transactions through Mexican credit institu- tions. No other exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital The Federal Government, other government entities, and companies based in Mexico are required to sell at the controlled market the proceeds of loans obtained from financial institutions abroad or from Mexican credit ins t i tu t ions and repayable abroad. Borrowing agencies and enterprises are exempt from the surrender require- ment only when the loan proceeds are used for the servicing of reported external debt with the approval of the Bank of Mexico, or for import payments authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce. The servicing of debt contracted after December 20, 1982 (including principal, interest, and related expenses) can be effected through the controlled market. The Bank of Mexico provides foreign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations outstanding as of December 20, 1982 through a coverage exchange system. Only long-term debt or debt restructured to cover the long term have access to this fac i l i ty. In order to have access to the exchange coverage system, all debts with foreign finan- cial institutions must be either registered with the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit or, in the case of suppliers' credits, w i th the Secretariat of Commerce. New foreign direct investment in Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electricity and nuclear ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution energy, certain m in ing activities, railroads, telecom- munications, and other activities specified by Mexican laws, are reserved for government investment. Invest- ment in a number of activities is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or corporations (radio and televi- sion, the public transportation system, forestry, as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government), while new investments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican capital, except those cases specifically approved by the National Foreign Investment Commission. Foreign direct investments in Mexico must be registered w i th the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of National Proper- ties and Industrial Development (SEPAFIN). Applications by foreign ind iv idua ls or enterprises to acquire more than 25 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the National Foreign Invest- ment Commission. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered w i th in 30 days. Borrowing abroad (or w i th in Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector is subject to approval by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. Financial operations in Mexico by foreign financial entities must be made in accordance w i th guidelines set by the Bank of Mexico and the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. Peso loans by foreign f inanc ial entities to the public and private sectors in Mexico are discouraged. Deposits denominated in foreign currency with Mexican credit institutions are authorized only in special cases. Special accounts denominated in foreign currency can be opened by diplomatic delegations, international organizations and their employees, as well as foreign press correspon- dents. Withdrawals in local currency are made at the free exchange rate. Special compensation accounts opened during the period September 1-December 19, 1982 are maintained subject to the conditions prevailing at the time of the opening of each account, although transactions are effected at current exchange rates. Export companies can open special peso accounts linked to export surrender of foreign exchange w i th interest bearing equivalent to the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U .S. dollar, plus the corresponding Euro- dollar deposit rate. Foreign exchange accounts can also be opened by enterprises in border areas and free trade zones and by in-bond industries. The interest paid on these deposits cannot exceed the Eurodollar sight deposit rates for the period of deposit. Conversion into Mexican pesos is effected at corresponding exchange rates ( i .e ., in- bond industries at the controlled rate for specific pur- poses, free market rate for enterprises in border and free trade zones). Special U .S. dollar accounts have been set up by foreign f inanc ial entities in the Mexican credit institutions acting as agents for the Bank of Mexico in respect of settlement of interest due by private sec- tor borrowers between August 1, 1982 and Janu- ary 31, 1983. MEXICO Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are lim- ited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manufac- turers effected through authorized Mexican credit institu- tions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. There is a value-added tax of 10 percent on sales of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 18. The Bank of Mexico announced a temporary withdrawal from the exchange market. The fo l low ing day the peso depreciated from Mex$26.86 at the previous closing to Mex$38.10 per US$1. Thereafter it continued to depreciate and by the end of February it was quoted at Mex$47.00 per US$1. June 5. The Bank of Mexico announced that it would intervene again in the foreign exchange market, and a policy was adopted to allow the peso to continue its depreciation at a rate of Mex$0.04 per US$1 a day. August 5. A two-tier exchange rate was instituted with a preferential rate applying to sales of exchange for servicing the debt of the public sector, interest payment for private sector external debt, and certain priority imports. The proceeds of petroleum exports and foreign borrowing by the public sector were to be converted through this market. All other transactions were to be effected at a freely floating rate. On the first day of operations (August 6), the peso closed at Mex$49.13 in the preferential market and Mex$76.33 per US$1 in the floating market. In addition, the commercial banks were required to surrender to the Bank of Mexico their net foreign exchange holdings, inc lud ing gold and silver. August 13. All deposits denominated in foreign currency w i th Mexican banks were made eligible for conversion at maturity into local currency at a rate of Mex$69.50 = US$1, and not in foreign currency as was the previous practice. The foreign exchange market was temporarily closed. August 16. The commercial banks were authorized to open accounts in foreign currencies for embassies, consulates, and international organizations and foreign residents working for these organizations. August 18. By Presidential Decree, rules were issued relating to the management of foreign exchange at special rates. All public sector agencies, including public sector enterprises, were requested to surrender their foreign exchange holdings, and time deposits held by these agencies were made subject to surrender at matu- r i ty. Petroleos Mexicanos was allowed to open a special account in foreign currency w i th the Bank of Mexico for all its deposits and was allowed to draw from the account for specified payments. Private enterprises were required to register their foreign debt obligations with the Secre- tariat of Finance and Public Credit. The decree autho- rized the sale of foreign exchange at the dollar rate applicable to local deposits denominated in foreign currency (Mex$69.50 = US$1) for obligations payable abroad by local financial entities and offset by liabilities 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO in foreign currency payable in Mexico by other Mexican residents. The rate of Mex$69.50 = US$1 also applied to obligations in foreign currency resulting from forward cover arrangements (reportos), loans with fiduciary guarantees in local currency, and deposits held by embassies, consulates, and international organizations located in Mexico and their personnel; the same rate would also apply to payments of deposits in foreign currency made by foreign financial institutions in the Mexican banking system. August 19. The foreign exchange market was re- opened, and banks were authorized to buy and sell foreign currencies at a free market rate. September 1. By Presidential decree, exchange con- trols were established. Supplementary rules w i th the details of such controls were issued by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit on September 14, 1982; the decree made all foreign exchange transactions subject to control and stipulated that exportation and importation of foreign currency could be effected only through the Bank of Mexico, or through its designated agents. Two basic exchange rates (an ordinary and a preferential rate) were to be maintained in addition to any special rate that the authorities deemed required, in accordance w i th the needs of the country. Ind iv idua ls were prohibited to export or import domestic currency in excess of Mex$5,000, and exports of gold and silver were made subject to prior authorization. A foreign exchange budget was to be prepared to help, inter alia, to establish priorities in the allocation of foreign exchange, subject to availability of foreign exchange at the Bank of Mexico. Sales of foreign exchange at the preferential rate were to apply principally to the foreign obligations of the pub l ic sector and domestic credit institutions, interest and principal payments for private sector obligations con- tracted before September 1, 1982, and specified imports authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce. Unless otherwise authorized by the Bank of Mexico, all other exchange transactions were to be effected at the ordinary rate. Mexican private banking institutions were nation- alized by a Presidential Decree. Under the decree establishing a new exchange ar- rangement and supplementary regulatory rules, all capi- tal transferred and held abroad prior to September 1, 1982 could be repatriated; the ordinary exchange rate would be applied to the repatriated amounts. It was specified that accounts opened in the Mexican banking system and loans granted by these banks could not be denominated in foreign currency, with specific excep- tions relating mainly to foreign service and press correspondents, export in-bond, and tourist industries. September 6. Two exchange rates (a preferential rate and an ordinary rate) were announced, at Mex$50 and Mex$70 respectively, per US$1; only specified pur- chases could be made at the preferential rate. September 6. The Bank of Mexico designated Banco Internacional, S .A. as the only bank authorized to open 324 accounts in foreign currency for the foreign service, international organizations operating in Mexico, and their foreign personnel. September 14. The rules and regulations related to the exchange arrangement announced on September 1 were issued by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. September 20. The issuance of payments and other transactions in pesos abroad by Mexican credit ins t i tu- tions was prohibited. October 14. The Bank of Mexico announced that payments for specified obligations in foreign currency to Mexican credit institutions should be effected at the ordinary exchange rate. In general, repayments of obligations in foreign currency to domestic banks should be effected at the preferential rate. The new regulations applied to credits to exporters for stocks and export f inanc ing, credits issued for foreign exchange transac- tions w i th exchange cover (reportos), and credits out- standing prior to September 1, 1982, and guaranteed by deposits denominated in foreign currency. November 3. The authorities announced the establish- ment of a new exchange market in the border areas and free trade zones. The exchange rate was to be determined by supply and demand conditions in the area. Sales of foreign exchange could be effected by local or foreign residents, but purchases were restricted to ind iv idua ls and enterprises residing in the border areas. December 13. In a modification of the existing exchange arrangement, a decree was issued establishing two foreign exchange markets, name ly, a controlled market and a free market. The decree envisaged that the repayment of specified foreign obligations could be effected through a special coverage exchange system w i th a fixed exchange rate plus a forward premium. The new arrangement came into effect on December 20, 1982. The exchange rate in the controlled market was to be off ic ia l ly established and would apply to only specified transactions, name ly, (a) all merchandise ex- port receipts, net of any required payments abroad made by the exporter (unless specifically exempt); (b) pay- ments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, rent, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets; (c) the principal and interest payments and related expenses resulting from foreign obligations by the public and private sectors (proceeds from such loans should also be surrendered in the controlled market); (d) payments for imports authorized at this rate by the Secretariat of Commerce; (e) payments for the Mexican foreign service and contributions to interna- tional organizations of wh ich Mexico is a member; and (f) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Bank of Mexico. All Mexican credit institutions, as well as the existing exchange houses, would be authorized to oper- ate in the free market. At the beginning of the operation of the free market, and as a temporary measure, ind iv idual transactions would be limited to US$1,000 a person a transaction and US$5,000 an enterprise a transaction. No l im i ts were established on the number of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions that could be effected by any single indi- vidual or enterprise. Transactions other than those specified in the controlled market were to be effected through the free market, without any l im i ta t ions, at a freely determined rate. For the free market operations no limitations applied to sales, ownership, or transfer of foreign exchange, including the import and export of foreign exchange. December 17. The Bank of Mexico issued new regulations banning intervention in forward transactions by Mexican credit institutions linked to transactions denominated in local currency. In addition, the banks were authorized to hold short or long positions in foreign currency in the free market not exceeding 10 percent of total capital and reserves. December 18. The Bank of Mexico issued regulations governing the functioning of the controlled foreign exchange market. A separate document specified the regulations governing deposits denominated in foreign currency opened by in-bond industries in free trade zones and border areas. Similar regulations were issued for accounts denominated in foreign currency and held by other enterprises in border areas and free trade zones. Transactions could be made in foreign currency for expenses abroad related to the operations of the enter- prises. Payments could also be made in local currency, at either the controlled or free exchange rate, depending on the nature of the particular transaction. December 20. The exchange arrangement announced on December 10 came into effect w i th exchange rates of Mex$95.10 = US$1 selling and Mex$95.00 - US$1 buying in the controlled market, and Mex$150 = US$1 selling and Mex$148.50 = US$1 buy ing in the free market. Imports and Import Receipts March 4. In the context of an economic adjustment program, the authorities announced a program to reduce import duties to the level prevailing in June 1981, for 1,517 items, including raw materials, intermediate and capital goods, and certain basic commodities of general consumption. August 5. As part of the regulations establishing a two-tier market, it was announced that payments for cer- tain priority imports could be made at the preferential rate. September 1. Under the decree establishing a new exchange arrangement and supplementary rules, most imports were made subject to prior licensing; however, certain personal items and goods w i th a value not exceeding Mex$5,000 could be imported w i thout prior permits. Import permits were classified as (a) permitted imports with availability of foreign exchange, (b) per- mitted imports, and (c) banned imports. The sale of foreign exchange at the ordinary exchange rate was permitted for expenses related to imports that had been authorized prior to September 1, 1982. September 17. A regulation specified the list of 3,376 items that could be imported at the preferential rate and for wh ich prior permission could be granted. MEXICO September 20. Import payments to Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia were required to be made through compensation accounts in the reciprocal agree- ments between the Bank of Mexico and the central banks of these countries. (Previously, payments to or from these countries could be effected by alternative means.) December 20. A new exchange arrangement came into effect, specifying that the Bank of Mexico would sell foreign exchange at the controlled rate for the payment of imports that had been authorized at the preferential rate prior to the issuance of the new decree. December 20. Import duties for items covered by the controlled exchange market were to be reduced by 10 percentage points. Payments for Invisibles August 5. As part of the regulations establishing a two-tier foreign exchange market it was announced that transfers of interest payments on private and public debt could be effected at the preferential rate. September 1. Under the decree establishing a new exchange arrangement and supplementary rules, it was announced that special allocations of foreign exchange would be granted to residents of border areas in order to meet foreign currency expenses. The max imum alloca- tion of such foreign exchange was the equivalent, at the ordinary exchange rate, of one third of the m in imum monthly wage in the area. Payments and other transac- tions abroad in pesos by Mexican credit institutions were prohibited. In addition, the following limits on export of foreign exchange were specified for each resident of Mexico traveling abroad: travel for medical pur- poses, US$6,000; for business or work-related travel, US$3,000; travel for any other purposes, US$1,500; the limits could not be exceeded in any one calendar year, regardless of the number of trips made. In cases where residents did not have direct access to foreign exchange, the Bank of Mexico, through the national credit estab- lishment and in accordance w i th ava i lab i l i ty, would sell the fo l low ing max imum amounts of foreign exchange a person for travel abroad: up to US$100 a day of travel w i th a max imum of US$500 a calendar year for adults, and half the amounts for minors; and up to an additional amount of US$3,000 a calendar year to cover medical expenses. Special allocations of up to US$10,000 a year were granted to students abroad. Residents requiring sums in excess of those noted above (w i th the exception of recreation-related travel) could submit an application to the Bank of Mexico, with documents jus t ify ing the amounts requested. December 19. The Bank of Mexico authorized the opening of special accounts for the repayment of interest due to commercial banks abroad and unpaid between August 1, 1982 and January 31, 1983. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exports and Export Proceeds August 5. As part of the announced regulations establishing a two-tier market, all exports of PEMEX were made subject to surrender at the preferential exchange rate. September 1. Under the decree establishing a new exchange arrangement and supplementary rules, all export receipts were made subject to surrender at the ordinary exchange rate. October 11. As part of the new exchange ar- rangement, the Bank of Mexico issued new regulations governing the compensation accounts for exporters, whereby companies in the export and tourist industries were authorized to open special accounts, linked to their foreign exchange transactions. The companies were entitled to repurchase up to 70 percent of their foreign exchange receipts from their accounts, for expenses associated with foreign trade. Payments abroad were only authorized for the imports of merchandise, service payments related to exports, maintenance services, profit remittances, royalties, and debt service payments, all upon justification. Foreign exchange would normally be provided at the ordinary exchange rate, but the preferen- tial rate would apply to interest payments and imports permitted at this exchange rate. December 17. In furtherance of the Decree on Foreign Exchange Control of December 13, 1982, the Bank of Mexico issued rules for the opening of special deposits by exporters in local currency. Such deposits could be made only with proceeds from exports, and would bear an interest rate equivalent to the depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar, plus the average sight interest rate payable on Eurodollar deposits. December 20. A decree on foreign exchange control came into effect, specifying that Mexican credit institu- tions would not be allowed to credit the special compen- sation accounts of export and tourist companies w i th amounts that would increase the ability of the account holder to purchase foreign exchange. Receipts from Invisibles September 1. Under the decree establishing a new exchange arrangement and supplementary rules, it was announced that arriving foreign travelers should declare their holdings of foreign exchange, and could convert the equivalent of up to US$250 of their holdings of Mexican pesos upon departure. (The decree came into effect on December 20, 1982.) October 11. The Bank of Mexico issued new regula- tions governing compensation accounts opened by tour- ist companies for payment of foreign exchange related expenses. Capital April 15. The Bank of Mexico modified the criteria for the approval of transactions under forward cover ar- rangements, originally introduced in 1977. The modifi- cations extended the financial operations to include general financing of enterprises. (Previously, authoriza- 326 tion had been granted only for the expansion of produc- tive capacity through the investment in fixed assets.) In addition, the Bank of Mexico announced a new system of bank f inanc ing with a fiduciary guarantee, based on deposits in foreign currency in a Mexican credit institution. August 5. As part of the regulations establishing a two-tier exchange system, it was announced that receipts and payments by the public sector were to be effected at the preferential exchange rate. September 28. The Bank of Mexico issued the rules and regulations pertaining to the opening of accounts in U .S. dollars by foreign press correspondents, along the lines of the rules issued for deposits by employees of international organizations and foreign service in Mexico. October 11. The National Foreign Investment Com- mission issued the regulations governing the payment of obligations arising from foreign direct investments in Mexico. The decree authorized payment of royalty and profit remittances up to 15 percent of equity, subject to foreign exchange availability. Mexican enterprises with obligations abroad were also authorized to open accounts in the name of their creditors abroad; such accounts could be liquidated for the payment of their obligations, whenever the availability of foreign exchange would allow it. Authorization was also granted for foreign creditors to use the proceeds of these accounts as foreign investment in the debtor enterprises. October 11. The Bank of Mexico issued regulations governing the foreign exchange accounts of enterprises in border areas and free zones. Such enterprises, in particular the in-bond industries, would be eligible for the special foreign exchange accounts, only if domestic value added was at least 30 percent of gross sales. Balances in the foreign currency-denominated accounts could be used only for specified purposes, namely, imports or services related to maintenance of equipment, general imports and exports, profit remittances, royalty payments, and debt service payments. October 22. The Bank of Mexico authorized remit- tances of fund s, on a monthly basis beginning from November 1, 1982, for repayment of deposits de- nominated in foreign currency and held by foreign banks in local Mexican credit institutions. Monthly transfers should not exceed one sixth of the total amount outstand- ing as of November 1, 1982. October 25. The Bank of Mexico issued modified regulations governing deposits in foreign currency held by foreign service as well as international organizations and their personnel. October 29. The Bank of Mexico announced that the interest rate on the foreign exchange accounts opened by in-bond industries should not exceed the Eurodollar rate on sight deposits for the corresponding period. December 17. The Bank of Mexico issued rules for the opening of special deposits in local currency by exporters as provided under the Decree on Foreign Exchange Control of December 13, 1982. Such deposits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution could be made only w i th proceeds from exports and would earn interest at a rate equ iva lent to the deprecia- tion of the peso against the U .S. dollar, p lus the interest rate payable on Eurodollar sight deposits. December 77. A Bank of Mexico rule was introduced, specifying that effective December 20, 1982 Mexican credit institutions could not credit the special compensa- tory accounts of export and tourist companies to the extent that would increase the ab i l i ty of the account holder to purchase foreign exchange. December 18. The Bank of Mexico issued new regulations governing the functioning of the controlled foreign exchange market. Regulations were also issued concerning accounts denominated in foreign exchange held by enterprises in border areas and free trade zones. December 19. The Bank of Mexico issued detailed regulations w i th regard to the es tab l ishment of accounts by foreign financial entities for the settlement of interest payments on foreign obligations by private sector bor- rowers. Such accounts could be opened through Janu- ary 31, 1983 and would pay a competitive interest rate equivalent to the prime rate in the United States p lus 7/s of 1 percentage point, or the LIBOR rate p lus 1 percentage point. Remittances of the principal amount of deposits would be determined on a mon th ly basis in l ight of availability of foreign exchange. The deposits could be made in respect of only the obligations registered w i th the Secretary of Finance and Public Credit by Mexican debtors; deposits were related only to interest payments due and were to be made at the controlled exchange rate of the date of deposit. December 20. The new exchange control decree authorized enterprises to open special accounts in local currency, provided that on ly proceeds from exports would be deposited in these accounts. The interest rate on such deposits wou ld be not less than the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U .S. dollar. December 20. The new Exchange Control Decree specified that the Bank of Mexico wou ld provide foreign MEXICO exchange for servicing of foreign debt obligations ou ts tand ing as of December 20, 1982, at a guaranteed exchange rate. A risk cover p rem ium would be estab- lished to avoid any imp l ic it subsidies. Only long-term debt or debt restructured to cover the long term would have access to th is fac i l i ty. In order to have access to forward cover, all debt should be registered w i th either the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit or, in the case of suppliers' credits, the Secretariat of Commerce; exporters could retain up to 20 percent of their proceeds for the repayment of suppliers' credit outstanding prior to the issuance of the new decree. The special accounts of the foreign service, international organizations and the ir employees, as well as of foreign press correspon- dents (as provided under previous rules) would be allowed to con t inue; w i thdrawa ls in local currency could be made at the free exchange rate. December 21. The Bank of Mexico banned the opening in foreign currency of new accounts refundab le in Mexico. Gold August 5. Mexican credit ins t i tu t ions were required to surrender to the Bank of Mexico their net foreign exchange ho ld ings, inc lud ing gold and silver. September 1. Under the decree establishing a new exchange arrangement and supplementary rules, exports of gold and silver were made subject to prior au tho r iza t ion. September 8. The export of gold was made subject to prior l icens ing by the Bank of Mexico. September 12. Banco CREMI was authorized to be the only agent for selling gold and silver in Mexico for hand ic ra ft and jewe l ry purposes. September 12. Ru les and regulations were issued for the purchase of precious metals (as well as foreign exchange) by the Mexican credit ins t i tu t ions. December 20. The gold and silver markets were reopened 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buy ing and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance w i th the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Buy ing and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are es- tablished on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1982 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.92817 buying and DH 0.93095 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U .S. dollar was fixed at DH 6.2530 buy ing and DH 6.2821 selling, per US$1. A special premium, called the "fidelity prem ium ," is paid by the banks on remittances by Moroccans working in France. Effective Ju ly 1, 1982 the premium is defined as a fixed rate of 5 percent of the local currency va lue of such remittances. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buy ing and selling rates for transactions w i th travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in "convertible currencies" (the currencies listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Tunisian dinar) and specified other curren- cies;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This 'Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian r iya ls, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U .A .E. dirhams, and U .S. dollars. 2CFA francs, Finnish markkaa, Gibraltar pounds, Lebanese pounds, and Libyan dinars. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco, and on specified terms. 328 Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c . i . f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the payments agreement group, comprising countries w i th wh ich Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;3 and (2) all other coun- tries, the "area of convertibility." Certain noncommercial settlements w i th Algeria are made in dirhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements w i th Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams or Tunisian convertible dinars, and all settlements w i th Maur i tan ia are made through ac- counts denominated in convertible dirhams or converti- ible Maur i tan ian ougu iyas. Settlements w i th the pay- ments agreement group are made through the payments agreement accounts. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco. Other settlements w i th countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in convertible cur- rencies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical foreign nationals, either resident or nonresident. These may be freely credited w i th book transfers from abroad, with checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, except foreign bank notes, and with foreign currency drawn from the Bank of Morocco fo l low ing general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to the Bank of Morocco, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for physical or jur id ical persons of foreign 3Gu in ea and M a l i; however, these agreements are inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nationality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited freely w i th authorized pay- ments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and w i th dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies, exclud- ing bank notes.4 They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. The interest rate payable on these deposits may not exceed 8.5 percent a year and is not subject to the withholding tax of 10 percent on interest earnings. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar ins t i tu t ions) of the countries w i th which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3); they are used only for settlements with these countries, inc lud ing set- tlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, wh ich may be held by any nonresident, are credited w i th funds that may not be transferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities w i thout retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange and lacking retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified govern- ment bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco (subject to a l im it of DH 10,000 a year for each account), as well as the settlement of taxes in Morocco owed by the account holder. All other operations through Capital Accounts require ind iv idual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and, up to DH 10,000 a person a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate relatives, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Three Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria, the Central Bank of Maur i tan ia, and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial trans- actions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories 4The Exchange Office m ay, howeve r, authorize a foreign account to be credited in conver t ib le d irhams w i th the d irham proceeds from the surrender of foreign bank notes, upon presentation of the o r ig inal customs declaration. MOROCCO and applicable to all countries. Goods in List A may be imported freely. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need,... licenses usua l ly being issued upon application (SB items). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and gold jewe lry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement a" importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c . i . f. basis ,5 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation a"importa- tion or certificat a"importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) w i th an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d i f fer or when imports are contracted for on a c . i . f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. At the time the import transaction is domiciled w i th an authorized bank, a stamp du ty of DH 50 is levied on import transactions valued at DH 2,000 or more, and a non-interest-bearing advance import deposit equivalent to 25 percent of the total foreign exchange cost of the import must be paid; imports of certain animal feeds and specified agricultural materials are exempted from the advanced import deposit requirement. The deposit is refunded to the importer after six months. Many import items are exempt from the deposit requirement —notably essential foodstuffs, primary, semifinished, and capital goods imported by cooperatives and by small and medium-sized enterprises with an annual turnover of less than DH 7.5 m i l l ion, and imports under the customs savings procedures.6 Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with quotas estab- lished in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transac- tion covered by the relevant import or export documents. 5C . i . f. imports of List A goods requ ire prior exchange control approval. 6I n c l u d i ng temporary adm iss ions, drawbacks, and warehousing. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to the employee's country of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 percent of his monthly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee is single or his family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the Ministry of National Education are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days' leave taken abroad, of 70 percent for a 60 days' leave and of 105 percent for 70 days' leave. For the medical or paramedical professions, the assessment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 percent, accord- ing to whether the spouse lives in Morocco) is based on taxable income minus applicable duties and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in industry, trade, agriculture, and crafts, except that the monthly transferable amount may not exceed DH 2,000. For retired persons the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 percent) is based on net pensions. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bank notes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requ iremen ts. For business travel a standard allowance of DH 500 a day is granted for executives and DH 350 a day for other staff members and employees, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and w i th in an annual ceiling fixed ind iv idua l ly by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional mem- bers of the tourist industry may obtain up to DH 750 a person a day, up to DH 10,000 a trip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 percent of the foreign exchange repatriated during the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursuing higher studies at the first and second level abroad who do not hold scholarships may obtain monthly allocations of foreign exchange up to a max imum of DH 1,600, and doctoral students who do not hold scholarships may obtain up to DH 1,800. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,750 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance fixed at DH 3,000. The export of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time may be granted DH 2,000 in foreign bank notes upon presentation of an employment contract. 330 Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made f ree ly, although export licenses are required for a few items. All f ru i t s, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by- products may be exported only by a state-trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commer- c ia l isa t ion et d'Exportation —OCE), wh ich is also in charge of w ine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be set more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all the ir noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one month of re-entry, but are permitted, when leav ing again, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered. A special p rem ium, called the "f ide l i ty p rem ium ," is paid by the banks on remittances by Moroccans work ing in France; it is at a f ixed rate of 5 percent of the local currency va lue of the remittances. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; foreign cur- rency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travelers also may bring in foreign bank notes in any amount, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of g if ts are not normally approved, nor is inves tment by private ind iv idua ls in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a benef ic iary. Permissible transfers of assets by resident foreigners on f inal departure vary w i th the length of stay, from DH 10,000 a year for a stay of up to 9 years, DH 150,000 for a stay of 10 to 14 years, DH 250,000 for 15 to 24 years of stay, and DH 350,000 when the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution period of residence exceeds 24 years. Also for departing resident foreigners, capital accounts w i th a balance on December 31, 1980 of not more than DH 20,000 are f u l ly transferable, and suspense accounts w i th a balance on February 6, 1981 not exceeding DH 10,000 are f u l ly transferable, provided that the bank fu rn ished the Ex- change Office w i th supporting informa t ion on the ac- counts by June 30, 1981. New foreign inves tmen ts in specified sectors of the economy may benefit from the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of Augu st 15, 1973.7 The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It guaran- tees the transfer of d iv idends d is tr ibu ted to nonresidents and of proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of the cap i tal brought in by the foreign investor. Inves tmen ts f inanced w i th funds held in Capital Accoun ts (see be low) also are e l ig ib le for the benefits of the Code; proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts f inanced in th is manner become transferable after a m i n im um inves tment period of f ive years. Foreign inves tmen ts approved under the previous Inves tment Code (of February 10, 1961) con t inue to benefit from the re transfer guarantee for the l i q u i d a t i on proceeds. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of other inves t- ments are credited to Capital Accoun ts. Operations through Capital Accoun ts that may be effected w i th approval inc lude purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or par t ic ipa t ion in a Moroccan f i rm; subscr ip t ions to either; inves tmen ts of any k i n d, inc lud ing purchases of businesses or office bu i ld ings; lend ing to residents; payment of local ex- penses in excess of DH 10T000 dur ing the ac- count holder's stay in Morocco; any such paymen ts to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close re la t ive; any such paymen ts from an account held by a foreign ju r id ical person; g i f ts to social, c u l t u r a l, or religious in s t i tu t ion s; subscr ip t ions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the t ime of issue to long-term or short-term f ixed y ie ld secur i t ies issued by a Moroccan pub l ic en t i ty; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the cost of ma in tenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for inves tmen ts in Morocco, w i th in the framework of the 1973 Inves tment Code, provided that the amoun ts debited do not exceed 50 percent of the inves tment under taken by the nonresi- dent and 25 percent of the company 's total cap i ta l. Certain government bonds acquired w i th funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonres i- dents. These are 5.5 percent, seven-year bonds and 6 percent, f ive-year bonds on wh i ch interest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferab le. All other transactions in securities invo lv ing nonres ident in teres ts, as we ll as the 7A new inv e s tm ent code was issued on J a n u a ry 17, 1983. MOROCCO import and export of secur i t ies, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from nonres- idents for credit to Special Deposit Accoun ts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tu r i ty period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on the ir corresponding p lacemen ts. Gold Commemora t ive gold coins w i th a face va lue of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Res iden ts may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Morocco for n um i sm a t ic or inves tment pur- poses. Ten d i f fe rent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, wh ich does no t, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Ind i rect Taxes. Each year the M in i s t ry of Finance f ix es a quota for the impor ta t ion of gold ingots, wh i ch is then allocated among jewe lers and indu s t r ial users of precious me ta ls. Gold jewe l ry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are p roh ib i ted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The ' ' f id e l i ty p rem ium" paid by banks on rem i t tances by Moroccans wo rk ing in France was changed to a f ixed rate of 5 percent of the local currency va lue of such rem i t tances; p rev iou s ly it had been ca lcu la ted to assure benef ic iar ies a conversion rate of DH 1 = F 1. Prescription of Currency January 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th the U . S . S . R. was te rm ina ted. Nonresident Accounts January 19. The Exchange Office announced that the interest rate of 8.5 percent payable on Foreign Accounts in Conve r t ib le D i rhams wou ld not be subject to the 10 percent w i t h h o l d i ng tax on interest earn ings introduced in the 1982 budge t. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The General Import Program for 1982 was announced, i n v o l v i ng l ibe ra l iza t ion of a numb er of import i tems in the form of a sh i ft of products from List B to List A, or from List C to List B; the liberalized items inc luded raw ma te r ia ls, certain consumer goods, and specified cap i tal goods. January 18. The Exchange Off ice announced the procedure for co l lec t ion by authorized banks of the DH 50 s tamp d u ty on all import sh ipmen ts valued at DH 2,000 or more as announced in the 1982 budget. February 16. Imports of certain an imal feeds and specified ag r i cu l tu r al raw ma ter ia ls were exempted from the advanced import deposit requ i remen t. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO March 2. A new list of items not subject to the advanced import deposit requirement was announced, involving an increase in the number of liberalized items. March 19. A complete list of imports exempt from the advanced deposit requirement was announced, involving all items that had been added to the exemption list since June 1978. Payments for Invisibles August 5. The maximum foreign exchange allowance a month for Moroccan students abroad was increased from DH 1,300 to DH 1,600 for those not holding scholarships, and from DH 1,500 to DH 1,800 for doctoral students not holding scholarships. In addition, the quarterly allocation supplementary to a scholarship was raised from DH 1,000 to DH 1,750, and the annual installation allowance for students abroad was increased from DH 2,000 to DH 3,000. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepa lese R u p e e, w h i ch is pegged to the U . S. do l la r, the i n t e r v e n t i on cu r rency, at the rate of NRs 14.30 - US$1. On December 3 1, 1982 the o f f ic ial b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates were NRs 14.20 and NRs 14.40, respec t ive ly, per US$1. Nepal also quotes f ixed rates for the I n d i an rupee, at NRs 145.00 b u y i ng and NRs 145.15 s e l l ing, per 100 Ind i an rupees. B u y i ng and s e l l ing rates a re quoted d a i ly for o ther c u r r e n c i e s ,' w i th quo ta t ions based on the b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates for the U . S. do l lar in ma rke ts abroad. B u y i ng rates on ly a re quo ted f or A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r an c s, I t a l i an l i r e, and Swed ish k rono r, based on b u y i ng rates for the U . S. do l lar in m a rk e ts abroad. R e s i d e n ts m ay f r e e ly purchase Ind ian rupees from Nepalese b ank s, and they may ho ld any am o u nt of I n d i an notes and c o i n, but the Ind ian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Pe rm i s s ion is r equ i r ed from the M i n i s t ry of F inance for a ll p a ym e n ts in c o n v e r t i b le cu r r en cy except for import p aym en ts and c e r t a in spec i f ied p a ym e n t s. Impo rt and export l i c e n s i ng is the r e s p o n s i b i l i ty of the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Supp ly. All exchange transac t ions w i th coun t r i es o ther t h an I n d ia m u st be se t t led t h r o u gh au thor ized dealers, that is, the Nepal Bank L td. and the R a s t r iya Ban i jya B a n k. W i t h in N e p al the re a re 154 add i t ional au tho r ized dealers l icensed to pu rcha se fo re ign cu r renc ies; any sale of such cu r r en c i es o ther t h an I n d i an rupees is sub ject to the pr ior app roval of the N e p al Ras tra B ank. Prescription of Currency No p resc r ip t ion of cu r rency r e q u i r em e n ts a p p ly to ou tgo ing p aym en ts to coun t r i es w i th w h i ch no p a ym e n ts agreement is in fo r c e ,2 and these may be made in fo r e ign cu r rency supp l ied by the Nepal Ra s t ra B a n k. P a ym e n ts to, and receipts f rom, o ther m emb er c o u n t r i es of the As ian C lea r ing U n i on ( A C U) except I n d ia (B a n g l a d e s h, B u rm a, I s l am ic R e p u b l ic of I r a n, P a k i s t a n, and S ri L ank a) in respect of cu r r ent t r a n s a c t i o ns (o t h er t h an those re la t ing to pe t ro leum, n a tu r al gas, and t h e ir p roduc ts) shou ld be e f fec ted t h r o u gh the ACU u n l e ss exporters in the partner coun t ry requ ire the transac t ion to be settled th rough no rmal b a n k i ng c h a n n e l s. P aym en ts for imports from Ind ia n o rm a l ly a re settled in I n d i an rupees, but the Nepal Ras tra B a nk some t imes makes conve r t ib le currenc ies a v a i l a b le for such impo r ts on the recommenda t ion of the M i n i s t ry of F in an c e. The pro- 1 A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, d e u t s c he m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, Japanese y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g. Sw i ss f r a n c s, S ingapore d o l l a r s, a nd A s i an M o n e t a ry U n i ts ( A M U s ). 2 Nepal has a b i la te ral p a ym e n ts agreement w i th Poland: p a ym e n ts for t r an s a c t ions u n d er the ag reement m u st be made t h r o u gh spec ial a c coun t s. ceeds of exports to Ind ia are obtained in Ind ian rupees, w h i le proceeds from o ther coun t r ies m u st be received in any of the quo ted conve r t ib le currenc ies (see footnote 1 ). Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Ras t ra B ank pe rm i ts non re s iden ts to open "conve r t ib le rupee accounts" w i th Nepa lese b ank s; ba l- ances on these accounts may be free ly transferred abroad. Accoun ts in I n d i an cu r rency may be opened on ly under special arrangemen ts. Foreign currencies brought i n to or rece ived in Nepal by non r e s id en t s, w h i ch a re conver ted in to Nepa lese rupees and deposited w i th a Nepa lese b a n k, may be reconver ted for t r a n s f er out of the c o u n t r y, sub ject to p r ior p e rm i s s ion of the Nepal R a s t ra B a n k. Imports and Import Payments Im p o r ts f rom I n d ia and im p o r ts of c e r t a in com- mod i t ies ( c em e n t, pe t ro leum p roduc ts, corrugated shee ts, i ron p r o d u c t s, copper, b rass, and o ther non- ferrous m e t a l s, i n d u s t r i al m a ch in e ry and spare parts, f e r t i l i z e r, and l i m i t ed am o u n ts of pe rsonal e f f e c t s) from c o u n t r i es o ther t h an I n d ia do not r equ i re impo rt l icen se s. A ll o ther impo r ts of goods r equ i re impo rt l i c en s e s. Im p o r ts of v eg e t ab le o i l, m a r g a r i n e, a n im al f a t, woo len carpe ts, a rms and a m m u n i t i o n, e x p l o s i v e s, c h em i c a ls to be used for e x p l o s i v e s, and w i re le ss t r a n sm i t t e rs r e q u i re special pe rm iss ion of the Gove rnmen t. Imports of beef are banned as are impo r ts of w a s h i ng soap and de te rgent powder. U n d er the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and I n d ia h ave agreed to freedom of trade be tween th em s e lv es in Nepa le se and I n d i an goods; I n d i an goods m a y, in p r i n c i p l e, be impo r ted f ree ly ( a l t h o u gh some a re sub ject to a p e rm it sys tem in order to p revent t h e ir re- expo r t a t ion and c e r t a in o thers are sub ject to export c e i l i n gs in I n d i a ); r e im b u r s em e nt of tax is made by the Gov e rnm ent of I n d ia to the Gove rnment of Nepal on d i rect impo r ts from I n d i an m a n u f a c t u r e rs of commod i- t ies sub ject to excise d u ty in I n d i a. Imports of certain commod i t i es from coun t r i es other th an I n d ia ( e . g ., s ta in less s tee l, w r ist wa tches, syn the t ic y a rn, radios, pocket c a l cu l a t o r s, v ideo sets, pho tog raph ic e q u i pm e n t, and o ther specified goods) are sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve r e s t r i c t ion s. Nepa lese c i t i z e ns r e t u r n i ng f rom abroad a re a l lowed to impo rt w i t h o ut l icen se personal e f fec ts v a l u ed from NRs 5,000 to NRs 15,000 once a yea r, d ep end ing on the du ra t ion of th e ir stay abroad. Customs du ty and sales tax are charged on am o u n ts in excess of the ex emp t ion l i m i t. The prov is ion also exemp ts ch i ld r en less than 16 years from cu s toms d u ty on g a rm en ts wo r th about US$200 b rought in for p r iva te u se. S im i l a r l y, N e p a li c i t i z e ns can b r i ng in one set of gold or s i lv er or j ew e l - s t u d d ed o rnamen ts wo r th NRs 8,000 a yea r. They are requ i red to show au tho r i z ed fo re ign ex ch ange sources for a ll the 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL goods brought in by them. All import settlements through the banking system must be on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the banking system. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for amounts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tu i t ion fees are allowed as required. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India but only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresi- dents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and religious importance, and other exports including old coin, gold and silver, coin and jewelry made of these metals, wild animals, musk and musk deer, snakes and lizards skins, narcotics, explosive materials, chemicals for ammu- nitions, raw skin and wool, rice bran, Coca-Cola, logs and sawn wood, and other specified items are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-export to any destination of goods imported from India is prohibited. With specified excep- tions, goods of Nepalese origin may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations, except handicrafts, woolen goods other than carpets, hessians, and jute bags, dry ginger, cardamom, cheese, and catechu require export licenses. The exchange proceeds from exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six months of the date when the goods crossed the customs frontier. Unit values are defined on an f .o .b. Nepal basis. Foreign or Nepalese tourists may take out as sou- venirs, without permission, goods not exceeding NRs 15,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and 334 Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in imum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign bank notes they bring in. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital re- mittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest or principal repayment, amounts arising from the transfer of technology, and compensations on acquired assets. In cases of proceeds of investment sales and dividends, remittances may be subject to installments fixed by the Government. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import du ty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 percent. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements May 6. The Nepal Rastra Bank discontinued quoting the exchange rate for cash U .S. dollars; the practice of determining the buy ing rates of the other convertible cash currencies at a discount of 1 percent relative to the normal buy ing rate fixed by the Rastra Bank was also discontinued. December 17. The Nepalese rupee was devalued against the U .S. dollar by 7.7 percent to a new rate at NRs 14.30 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments March 11. Nepalese citizens returning from visits abroad were exempted from customs duties and sales taxes on up to NRs 30,000 worth of imported goods for private use once a year; children less than 16 years were also exempted from import duties on garments worth about US$200 brought in for private use. March 19. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad were required to show authorized foreign exchange sources for all the goods brought in by them; goods valued up to NRs 15,000 could be brought in once a year without license, but w i th customs and sales tax payable on transactions in excess of the exemption l im i t. Prev- iously, goods valued up to NRs 15,000 could be brought in once every three -months without license. March 29. A ban was imposed on the imports of washing soap and detergent powder from all countries. June 16. The Nepalese Government classified imports into three categories for the purpose of licensing, as follows: (a) restricted items, (b) items subject to quan- titative restrictions, and (c) openly permitted items. (A similar classification was also introduced for exports.) July 30. In replacement of the 1962 agreement, an agreement was signed between Nepal and Pakistan, granting most-favored-nation treatment to each other in respect of customs duties, taxes, and other charges on imports and exports of goods between the two countries. December 13. A trade and payments agreement for a three-year period was concluded between Nepal and Czechoslovakia, providing for most-favored-nation treatment in respect of customs du ty and other levies. Payments in respect of trade between the two countries would be in convertible currency. Exports and Export Proceeds January 3. The export duties and the excise taxes on the exports of raw ju te, jute goods, cardamom, dry NEPAL ginger, tea, herbs, and ready-made garments were waived, and the export duties on leather products were reduced from a range of 1 percent to 12 percent to one of 0.5 percent to 2 percent. In addition, financial grants of NRs 700 and NRs 500 a metric ton were provided to exporters of hessian, sacking, and twine, respectively, to countries other than India. After December 31, 1982, the financial grants were to be reduced in proportion to the rise in the international price of jute. January 10. The exports of logs and sawn wood were banned; the ban, however, would not affect exports of wood to the Indian railways and other committed exports to countries other than India. March 16. Export of all kinds of rice from the Mechi zone were banned. May 15. The Nepalese Government granted permis- sion for export of 13,431 metric tons of a specified type of rice. July 30. In replacement of the 1962 agreement, an agreement was signed between Nepal and Pakistan, granting most-favored-nation treatment to each other in respect of customs duties, taxes, and other charges on imports and exports of goods between the two countries. July 31. A ban was imposed on exports of rice and paddy. August 30. A National Export Trade Development Council was established, consisting of representatives of both the public and private sectors. November 11. The ban on export of clarified ghee from the Lumb ini zone was lifted. December 13. A trade and payments agreement for a three-year period was concluded between Nepal and Czechoslovakia, providing for most-favored-nation treatment in respect of customs du ty and other levies. Payments in respect of trade between the two countries would be in convertible currency. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Ne ther lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates w i th B e lg ium, Denmark, France, the Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ireland, I ta ly, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance w i th this agreement, the Netherlands ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian l ira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Ne ther lands Bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1982 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 10,000 Italian lire Netherlands Upper l im it Guilders Lower l im it 5.8670 32.0425 113.050 39.8925 3.8180 20.2850 5.6090 30.6325 108.0775 38.1375 3.6500 17.9925 The participants in the EMS do not ma in ta in exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed l im i t s. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for 14 foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1982 the authorized banks' buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar were f. 2.62325 and f. 2.62575, respec t ive ly, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, inc lud ing de- posits in nonresident gu i lder accounts, and inconver t ib le currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, 'A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, Be lg ian francs, Canad ian do l lars, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i re, I r ish pounds, Japanese y en, Norweg ian kroner, pounds s t e r l ing, Swed ish k rono r, Swiss f ranc s, and U . S. do l la rs. 336 nor is an und e r ly ing transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions w i th other residents, inc lud ing authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions w i th authorized banks for any period. The in termed ia t ion of authorized banks is not obligatory in those forward currency transactions in wh ich the gu i lder is not involved. Nonbank residents are free to hold fore ign currency accounts at home and are permitted to hold accounts in the ir own names w i th banks abroad; for any one holder, aggregate overdrafts on the latter accounts may not result in gross foreign borrowing in excess of f. 500,000 a calendar year w i thout specific license (see section on Capital, below). The K ingdom of the Netherlands forma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions w i th the Ne the r lands An t i l les are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions w i th other countries. W i th regard to any th ird countries w i th wh ich paymen ts agreements m ight be in force, the Ne ther lands and the Ne the r lands An t i l l es w i l l, if so s t ipu la ted, cons t i tu te the Ne the r lands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on beha lf of the M in is ters of Foreign A f fa i r s, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agriculture. Import and export l icen s ing, inc lud ing transit t rade ,2 are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CD IU) and the delegated off ices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Re la t ions. For their paymen ts to and receipts from nonresidents in the Ne ther lands, residents are genera l ly required to use the intermediation of banks or other domestic ins t i tu t ions or persons au thor ized by the Ne ther lands Bank to hand le these exchange transactions w i th in the scope of the regu la t ions based on the External F inanc ial Relations Act 1980 (see section on Cap i ta l, be low). To facilitate the comp i la t ion of the balance of paymen ts, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for current paymen ts to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 3,000 and for all capital paymen ts and receipts, the nature of the unde r ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regula- tions govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is invo lved. Residents are free to open and ma in ta in bank accounts abroad; resident un i ts of in terna t ional companies are also free to ma in ta in current accounts w i th aff i l ia ted com- panies abroad for the purpose of intercompany set- t lemen ts. The Ne the r lands Bank must be notified of such 2 The on ly t r an s it trade t ransac t ions s t i ll subject to specific l icense are pu rchases and sales of s tra teg ic goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance w i th the related regulations. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made free ly. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresi- dents are free to open and ma in ta in nonresident accounts w i th authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Some capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license from the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports or ig ina t ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state-trading coun t r ies ,3 as we ll as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a l im i ted number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of tex t i les originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries (see footnote 3), most imports that require an import license are free from quan t i ta t ive restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are forma l ly liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agr icu l tural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made free ly, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative exchange control regulations. Residents may freely make advance payments for imports of commodities, but they require prior approval from the Netherlands Bank to delay payment for periods in excess of those that are customary in the trade concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic bank notes and coin or documents of va lue for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for wh ich payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted free ly. 3 State-trading countries are de f ined for th is purpose as cons is t ing of A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, People's Repub l ic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Mongolia, Po land, Roman ia, the U . S . S .R ., and Viet Nam. NETHERLANDS Nonresidents may export all unu t i l ized documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coin wh ich they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by draw ing on the ir accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agr icu l tural products, iron and steel scrap and related products, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission from the Ne ther lands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current inv is ib les. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amoun ts of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Nether- lands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Exchange control in the Netherlands is based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980. This Act l im i ts potential restriction to capital transactions, except when current payments and capital transactions are inter- woven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. Most external capital transactions are free. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are (1) f inanc ial borrowing from nonresidents exceeding f. 500,000 a year; (2) the issue of domestic debentures, and the sale of such securities (if not listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange) to nonresi- dents; and (3) long-term lending ( i .e ., w i th a maturity of at least two years) to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 m i l l ion a year to the same nonresident. The inward transfer of capital originating from short- term borrowing abroad ( i .e ., w i th a ma tur i ty of less than two years) by nonbank residents is restricted for reasons of monetary policy. Longer-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises is generally per- mitted upon application if the loans meet the following conditions: (1) the average ma tur i ty shall be at least two years; (2) the rate of interest is not to be adjusted w i th in periods of two years; (3) advance repayment is pre- cluded; and (4) to the extent that the loan is denominated in gu i lders, the issue of negotiable money market debentures (apart from Euroguilder notes) is not allowed. Other borrowing (apart from intercompany borrow- ing, see below) is in general permitted only if the proceeds are employed abroad, either for direct invest- 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ment or for repayment of licensed foreign loans raised earlier. Short-term foreign bank credit for the f in an c ing of imports is licensed if it is d irec t ly connected w i th specific import transactions, tak ing the place of custom- ary supp l ier's credit. Direct investment in the form of capital par t ic ipa t ions (inward and outward) is free of license. The inward transfer of proceeds of borrowing from foreign a f f i l ia ted companies is licensed if the borrowing conditions enumerated above are met or if the loan has a f ixed ma tur i ty of five years (presum ing the parties concerned prefer a flexible rate of interest). Short-term lending (for less than two years) to nonresidents (whether aff i l ia ted companies or others) is free of license, as is longer-term lend ing, up to f. 10 m i l l ion a calendar year to the same nonres iden t; larger amounts are norma l ly permitted on app l ica t ion. Pub l ic issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are subject to the issues calendar, and if necessary limited by the Ne the r lands B ank, in accord- ance w i th the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market (the market for onderhandse leningen), where m a in ly in s t i tu- tional investors act as lenders, a queue system for nonresident borrowers is used as w e l l, to ensure orderly market conditions. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Ams terdam Stock Ex- change take place at off ic ial market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase o f f i c i a l ly listed securities abroad. However, issuance abroad of domestic bonds or notes is subject to license wh i ch, when domestic use of the proceeds is invo lved, is granted only if the ma tu r i ty and interest cond i t ions enumerated above are met. As a ru le, nonbank residents are not allowed to sell commercial and other receivables owed by residents or un l is ted domestic money market debentures, inc lud ing Netherlands Treasury paper, to nonresidents. Placement w i th residents of un l i s ted foreign debentures denominated in gu i lders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) is also subject to l icense, b u t, u sua l ly, the license is au toma t ica l ly granted as part of the authorization for credit ins t i tu t ions to manage such a placement. Transactions in un l is ted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have the ir securities, dom- estic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or inves tmen t, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents w i th in the framework of such transactions is also free of license. G if ts and donations to nonresidents are free. Em i- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leav ing the Netherlands and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Ne the r lands. Nonresidents 338 inh e r i t ing from estates in the Ne the r lands may have the proceeds transferred to them f ree ly. There are no restrictions on commerc ial banks' spot external pos i t ions. They are, however, required to m a in t a in a balanced total position in each foreign currency ( i . e ., spot p lus forward pos i t ion ). In th is con tex t, the banks are requ ired to report the ir spot pos i t ion, as we ll as the ir forward position w i th residents and nonres iden ts, respec t ive ly, in each foreign currency at the end of each mon th; for deutsche ma rk, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars, the same data mu st also be reported at m id -mon th. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts w i th nonresidents are forwarded to the Ne the r lands B a n k. Au thor ized banks may freely ex tend foreign currency loans to nonresidents as we ll as short-term gu i ld er loans ( i . e ., for less than two years); for longer-term gu i lder loans a license is requ ired if they exceed f. 10 m i l l i on a calendar year to the same nonres ident (bank or nonbank ). The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonres iden ts and to borrow abroad is un res t r ic ted. A ll cap i tal transfers by nonbank residents, whether free or perm i t ted under l icense, must be notified to the Balance of Paymen ts Department of the Ne ther lands B a n k. Th is inc ludes supp l ie r s' credits granted or re- ceived for periods in excess of one year; prepayments exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports mu st be reported as such. Totals of secur i ty transactions must be reported pe r iod ica l ly by securities brokers and author- ized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Ne the r lands Bank engages in gold transactions on ly w i th monetary au tho r i t ies and in terna t ional f inan- cial in s t i tu t ion s. N e i th er the Bank nor any government agency imports or marke ts gold for indus tr ial use. Au thor ized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold (f ine gold, gold co in, and gold alloys) in the Ne the r lands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export l icenses. There is a free gold market in Ams te rdam. Except for transactions of the Ne ther lands B a n k, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 4 percent, as are domestic sales of gold co in. All other gold transac- tions are taxed at 18 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewe l ry and of articles con ta in ing m inor quan t i t ies of gold, such as wa tches, requ ire import licenses on ly when o r ig ina t ing in Hong Kong, Japan, or state-trading coun tr ies. The domestic go ld-work ing indu s t ry, instead of h av ing to borrow capital to buy i n i t i al amoun ts of its raw ma te r ia l, is permitted to borrow th is gold from nonresidents under contract of m u t u um. Guarantees or other security required for th is may also be freely g iven. The qu an t i t i es of gold thus imported must be reported to the N e th e r l ands Bank on a qua r te r ly basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 14. The bilateral central rates between the Netherlands gu i lder and the currencies of the other participating countries in the European Monetary System were realigned, resu l t ing in an appreciation of the central rate of the Netherlands gu i lder in terms of ECUs by 3.61 percent. Capital January 1. It was announced that permission wou ld henceforth be granted, upon application, for ins t i tu t ions NETHERLANDS involved in placing w i th nonresidents, unlisted foreign debentures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eurogu i lder notes) to extend such placements to acquisi- tion by residents. January 1. As domestic credit restriction had been suspended, it was announced that financial guarantees by residents for borrowings by nonresidents would hence- forth be licensed w i thout the restrictive conditions that had hitherto been applied. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 3 J, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.79 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1 .81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at NA f 1.80 per US$1; it does not normally deal w i th the pub l ic. Off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U .S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax3 of 0.80 percent on sales of foreign exchange.4 Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affa irs. The commer- cial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antillean guilders. Receipts may be ac- cepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antillean guilders. All payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as all receipts through the autho- rized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands An t i l lean guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Netherlands An t i l les wh ich render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 10,000 w i thout central bank approval. 1 The Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of wh ich the Kingdom of the Ne the r lands has accepted the F u n d 's Articles of Agreement. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands gu i lders, pounds s ter l ing, Su r iname gu i lde r s, Sw iss francs, and Venezue lan bolwares. 3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies w i th nonres- ident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. 4A ll currencies other than the Ne ther lands A n t i l l e an gu i lder are considered foreign currenc ies. 340 Imports and Import Payments Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. A license is required for certain special transactions; such licenses are granted when no capital transfer is involved. Nonres- idents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles bank notes is limited to NA f. 200 a person. Travelers may bring in w i th them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in w i th them any amount of checks, trave ler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles re- quires a license, which is normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Inves tment by residents in real estate situated abroad is normally permitted. Inves tment in off ic ia l ly listed foreign securities is generally permitted provided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank. Ins t i tu t ional investors are subject to special supervision w i th respect to foreign investments. Authorized banks' overall position w i th relation to nonresidents is subject to l im i ts set by the central bank, and mus t, in any event, be positive. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Ne ther lands An t i l le s. Au thor ized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and w i th other residents. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. Exchange rates are computed on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand dollar and a basket of currencies representing New Zealand's ma in trading partners. The weights of the currencies in the basket are established in accordance w i th their propor- tionate share of New Zealand's total current overseas receipts and payments; the weights are adjusted quar- terly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U .S. dollar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. For all currencies except the U .S. dollar the trading banks are free to move the spot exchange rate in response to market conditions throughout each business day. The outer limits for the telegraphic transfer buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were Z 1.3559 and Z 1.3746, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks are permitted to conclude w i th their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, provided that any outward remittance made in the form of a forward contract also complies w i th exchange control regulations. These forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Reserve Bank sets the forward premium and/or discount rate at which it will deal w i th the trading banks in U .S. dollars for periods of 12 months. The trading banks are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discretion- ary authority to the trading banks to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations gov- erning foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Indus try, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency .! Payment to and from New Zealand currency 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. accounts held w i th banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of paymen t. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified ac- counts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions w i th other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts wh ich would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments2 Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers v i r tua l ly all primary products (other than wheat), most raw materials and components (e .g ., base chem- icals and fertilizers) and machinery of a type not produced in New Zealand, and some consumer goods. Goods in th is category are exempt from l icens ing, as are, in addition, a small range of goods of Australian origin .3 W i th the exception of a few specified primary products, imports from the Pacific islands4 under the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) are free of licensing and duty requirements. On a value basis, about 75 percent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The "Basic" category com- prises items for wh ich licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual value of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this category are generally consumer goods and a range of materials for use in manufacture. Licenses for imports under this category have been issued in general where there is local manufacture to provide some opportunity for import competition. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, including most manufactures, for example, machinery and appliances, aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis and on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to a rolling replacement licensing program. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically 2 A bilateral trade agreement (called a Closer Economic Relations Agreement) w i th Australia came into e f fec t, on January 1, 1983, prov id ing for a phased e l im ina t ion of Aus t ra l ian ta r i f fs of 5 percent or less and a phased reduction over a six-year period of v i r tua l ly all other ta r i f fs. In add i t ion, all quan t i ta t ive restrictions on New Zealand imports from Aus t ra l ia were to be removed by 1995. 3 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on Janua ry 1, 1966. 4The islands under th is arrangement are those cons t i tu t ing the South Pacific Forum, i .e. (in addition to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, F i j i, K i r iba t i, N au ru, N iue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Is lands, Tonga, Tuv a lu, Western Samoa, and Vanua tu. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND to ensure continuity of importation for certain regularly required goods in the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. The overall administration of the system has been eased over the recent past, with greater availability of licenses for inputs to export-oriented indus try, to encour- age rationalization of production and greater cost con- tainment within industry generally. Some import licenses are issued under a tender system for a wide range of consumer goods, including certain foodstuffs, household appliances, apparel, and sport equipment. Tendering takes place in up to four rounds at six-month intervals. Imports under the scheme together with the special trade licenses are limited to 10 percent of the annual market value for each product category. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Import Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes (for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer ind iv idual entitlements to a composite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Im- port Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, v iz ., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments within prescribed limits for most categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments in excess of these limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, with a max imum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12- month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel pur- poses. In addition to the above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign funds. An international departure tax of $NZ 25 a person aged 12 and over ($NZ 5 for children over 2 but under 12) is payable on all tickets obtained in New Zealand for 342 departure from New Zealand, except for certain promo- tional, cu l tu ra l, or educational travel. This tax is ad- ministered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal authentication. Contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval, and new commitments, such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank and, for corporate borrowing, of the Overseas Investment Commission. Remittances abroad on account of maintenance or g if ts by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to limitation. Remittances for religious and charitable purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank, subject to formal authentication. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 100 in New Zealand currency, in any denomination of notes or coin. Exports and Export Proceeds To ensure that export earnings are returned through the banking system, an export license from the Customs Department is required before any goods can be exported from New Zealand. 'General export licenses, valid for five years, are issued to regular exporters. Particular export licenses, as required, are issued to new exporters or to those who do not export on a regular basis. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received w i th in six months from the date of shipment. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Encouragement is extended by the Government aimed at raising the level of exports from New Zealand, particularly nontraditional exports. Three new export incentive schemes were introduced on April 1, 1980 to replace existing incentives: (1) The Export Performance Taxation Incentive (EPTI), an incentive related to the sale of goods and services (including tourism) and based on a f irm's net foreign exchange earnings; (2) the Export Market Development Taxation Incentive (EMDTI), de- signed to encourage the development of export markets; and (3) the Export Programme Suspensory Loan Scheme, an alternative to the EMDTI and designed to encourage firms to undertake more thorough and coor- dinated marketing programs than is the case under the EMDTI. A bilateral trade agreement with Australia provides for the phased elimination between 1985 and 1987 of all performance-based export incentive schemes. To facilitate export competitiveness, import licenses can be issued to manufac tur ing exporters for materials and components where it is established that equivalent goods available from domestic sources have price or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other characteristics that jeopardize export performance. Bonus import licenses are available to manufacturers who have exported manufactured goods in which licensed imported raw materials and components have been used. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,5 the foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign cur- rency and then surrendered. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency pro- ceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coin. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zealand and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Consent for overseas borrowing is usually granted except for general funding by financial institutions and short-term working capital. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand through normal bank- ing channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, for example, as imports of plant or ma- chinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not normally permitted until the expiry of the term for which the funds were originally borrowed. All overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in excess 5 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are ( 1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or w i th any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). NEW ZEALAND of $NZ 300,000 in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies that are 50 percent or more overseas owned is normally restricted to 15 percent of the turnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings from overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct invest- ment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 percent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. Emigrants may transfer abroad their entire assets upon their departure from New Zealand. Applications for the remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally approved in fu l l. The authorities do not normally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government stock on the London register purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any over- seas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or be reinvested in other overseas securities within three months. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Commercial restrictively. imports of gold jewelry are licensed Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 22. It was announced that the effective (trade- weighted) exchange rate index of the New Zealand dollar would be pegged to an index level of 83.4. Exports and Export Proceeds June 30. The Export Programme Grant Scheme was replaced by the Export Programme Suspensory Loan Scheme, under wh ich loans advanced to exporters could be converted into cash grants upon fu l f i l lment of specified export targets. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of N ica ragua is the N i c a r agu an Cor- doba. N icaragua m a in t a ins a m u l t i p le exchange ma rket sys tem. Certain current and cap i tal receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its authorized agents at the official exchange rate; for specified current and capital paymen ts and t rans fe rs, the Cen tral B a n k, or its authorized agents, sells fore ign exchange at the o f f i c i al rate. Most other permitted foreign exchange t ran sac t ions take place at an o f f i c i a ly regu la ted exchange rate in the parallel market. On ly au thor ized dealers may purchase foreign exchange in the parallel marke t; dea l ings w i thout participation of an authorized in termed iary are pro- hibited. The Central Bank may impose l im i ts on transac- t ions in the parallel ma rke t, as w e ll as on the spread between b id and offer rates. Specified but v a r y i ng portions of the proceeds from cer ta in me rchand ise exports, i n c l u d i ng sugar, beef, and co t ton, may be surrendered in the parallel market in re tu rn for nonnego- tiable "certificates of foreign exchange av a i l ab i l i ty /' These portions are expressed either as a percentage of the export proceeds or as a specific amount per u n it exported, or as bo th. The cer t if ica tes may be used e i ther for the import requ i remen ts of the producer of the exports, or for encashment at the exchange rate p reva i l- ing in the pa ra l lel ma rke t. The fore ign exchange released by any conversion of exchange cer t if ica tes in to cordobas may be used by the f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions for merchandise imports not e l ig ib le for exchange at the off ic ial rate. On December 31, 1982 the o f f ic ial b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates for the U . S. do l la r, w h i ch is the i n t e r v e n t i on currency, were C$10 per US$1. The exchange rate in the parallel market was C$28 per US $ 1. A tax of C$5 per US$1 is imposed on purchases of foreign exchange in the official market for the import of basic goods classified as nonessential. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as from J u ly 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is adm in is tered by the Central Bank, wh ich has sole au thor i ty to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au thor i ty has been delegated to the commerc ial banks w i th regard to t ransac t ions at the o f f ic ial exchange ra te, to some seven p r iva te exchange houses that have been au thor ized in Managua to deal in the parallel market and to f ive other i n s t i t u t i o ns operat- ing in the rest of the coun t ry. The Central Bank is responsible for c la s s i fy ing imports, for i s su ing export au thor iza t ions, for au tho r iz ing sales of exchange at the o f f ic ial rate for cap i tal t ransac t ions and for paymen ts of i n v i s i b l e s, and for r egu l a t ing and con t ro l l ing the opera- t ion of the para l lel ma rke t. The Gove rnment J u n ta for Na t ional Recons t ruc t ion has f in al au tho r iza t ion over export and import c la s s i f ica t ion s. The Central Bank is au thor ized to impose a l im it on the amount of transac- tions effected du r ing a certain period in the parallel market and on the spread between bid and offer rates. Dealers in th is market have to keep account of all transac t ions and s u bm it the ir books to the Central Bank at the end of each mon th. There is a special commission for fore ign trade cons is t ing of representatives from the Central Bank and the M in i s t r ies of P l ann ing, Indus t ry, and Ex te rnal Trade. The commission meets twice a week to allocate foreign exchange among import applicants e l ig ib le for purchases at the official exchange rate; final decisions on these allocations are taken by the Commis- sion for Foreign Exchange A l loca t ion (CFA), wh ich is headed by a member of the Gove rnmen t. Prescription of Currency There is no prescr ip t ion of cu r rency, but the customs a u t h o r i t i es have the power to p roh ib it an export if the currency s t ipu l a t ed for p aym ent is not read i ly conve r t ib le in to U . S. dollars in in te rna t ional ma rke ts. Payments to Costa R ica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, and Honduras in respect of trade and inv is ib les may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. For compensation th rough the Clearing House, the Cen t ral Bank does not accept bank notes of El Salvador in excess of 100,000 Salvadoran colones a m o n t h, of Gua tema la in excess of 200,000 Gua tema lan que tza le s, and of Honduras in excess of 50,000 Hondu- ran lemp iras. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of External Trade; th is requirement can be waived for ind iv idu a ls who import only occasionally for th e ir own needs and who settle w i th foreign exchange ob ta ined from the para l lel ma rke t. In p r inc ip le, licenses are va l id u n t il the end of the ca lendar year in wh ich they are issued, but the Cen tral Bank may l im it the v a l id i ty of pe rm i ts in i n d i v i d u al cases to 60 days. There are several categories of registered importers. The Empresa N ica- raguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, wh ich imports agr icu l tural inpu ts, and the Empresa Nicaraguense de Impor tac iones, wh ich imports cap i tal goods for na t iona l ized enterprises, are state enterprises that are under the M i n i s t ry of Ex ternal Trade; they are not the sole importers of these products. Other commercial and indu s t r ial importers inc lude those who are permitted to import for fu r ther sale and those who may only import for the ir own indus t r ial needs. A special permit is required from the M in is try of Ex ternal Trade for each i n d i v i d u al import i n c l u d i ng imports settled w i th foreign exchange from the pa ra l lel marke t. Importers can place reques ts w i th the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry who w i ll then 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA decide whether to pass on the request for consideration to the Commission for Foreign Trade. Imports are divided into three categories. The first comprises basic commodities that are classified as essential and as such are eligible for foreign exchange in the official market and are exempt from foreign ex- change tax. They include medicines and medical equip- ment; petroleum and its derivatives; agricultural ma- chinery, spare parts, and tools; and pub l ic transportation equipment. The second category consists of other basic commodities that are classified as nonessential and, although eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate, are subject to an exchange tax of C$5 per US$1. The third category consists of nonbasic commodities wh ich can be imported through the parallel marke t, subject to authorization by the Commission on Foreign Trade and the Central Bank. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased from the bank ing sys tem .1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts, and letters of credit are used for imports from Japan. Central bank approval is required to open both a sight letter of credit and a term letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payments or payment w i th funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permission is at present limited ma in ly to industrial and ag r icu l tu ral machinery and certain raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, N icaragua grants du ty exoner- ations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports originating outside the Central Amer i- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the applicable import du ty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax, irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to an 8 percent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domesti- 1 However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L ( e f f e c t i ve Ma rch 1. 1963) the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by- products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in N icaragua, wh ich they themse lves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inh ab i t an ts of those areas. 346 ca l ly produced, and there is an additional 2 percent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the Mun ic ipal Welfare Board when the import takes place through Managua. Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange at the official rate for payments related to inv is ib les must be authorized by the Central Bank. Amoun ts above those authorized by the Central Bank may be purchased in the parallel market. Foreign currency notes may be exported f ree ly. Airlines operat- ing or represented in N icaragua must accept payment for tickets to M i am i, New Orleans, Panama and other cities close to Managua in cordobas at the official exchange rate p lus a comm iss ion of 1 percent. The Central Bank w i ll au thor ize the sale of fore ign exchange at the off ic ial rate to these companies equ iva lent to the U .S. dollar amount of invo ic ing for services. Tickets for travel beyond these cities are to be paid in foreign exchange obtainable in the parallel marke t. There are no other restrictions on travel abroad. Foreign exchange for tourism abroad and legitimate remittances can be ob- tained from the parallel marke t. For travel related to medical trea tmen t, an allowance of up to US$3,000 a year or more upon ve r i f ica t ion, may be purchased at the off ic ial rate for hospital b i l ls and medical expenses. A guarantee deposit in cordobas for the equivalent of 100 percent is requested but subsequently reimbursed upon proof of expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds The M in is t ry of External Trade is responsible for the four state enterprises that monopolize exports of coffee, cotton, mea t, and sugar, respectively. These exports require a general au thor iza t ion from the Central Bank. Exports of all other non trad i t ional goods require specific authorization from the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues the authorization after ve r i fy ing that the export prices are cons is tent w i th those preva i l ing in interna- tional marke ts. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered w i t h in 30 to 60 days of shipment at the off ic ial exchange rate, depending on the modality of paymen t. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds w i ll resu lt in revocation of the export license. Small border traders, at the end of each month, must surrender at the off ic ial exchange rate any excess of export receipts over import payments. Specified portions of proceeds from certain merchan- dise exports may be surrendered in return for nonnego- tiable "certificates of foreign exchange ava i lab i l i ty ." These portions are expressed either as a percentage of export proceeds or as a specific amount per un it of export, or as both. Several ag r icu l tu ral export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, which are applied progressively w i th the international price. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange from inv is ib les can be sold in the parallel market provided that they fall w i th in the follow- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing categories: receipts from tourist and business travel (although the Central Bank is authorized to request that a certain proportion of hotel costs be surrendered at the official exchange rate); fam i ly remittances received from relatives up to a specified degree of a f f in i ty; gifts of less than US$5,000 a year, except if the gift is used to import goods for a useful project; life insurance proceeds if the premiums are financed through the parallel market; pensions received from abroad. Embassies must sell at the official exchange rate their foreign currency inflow for domestic expenditure. Fifty percent of the wages of foreign recruited employees is returnable in foreign exchange at the official rate; the 50 percent ratio can be modified by the Central Bank in justifiable cases. To finance imports, the embassy can apply for foreign exchange at the official rate. Capital Authorization from the Central Bank is required for all capital transactions. Foreign exchange proceeds from loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law must be surrendered to the Central Bank through its authorized agents at the official exchange rate. Foreign exchange is sold at the official rate for servicing external public debt, except for a small portion of debt still in the process of being renegotiated. With few exceptions, authorization is given for servicing unguaranteed private debt un t il such debt has been renegotiated with the creditors. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Nicaragua in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. The Nicara- guan Mining Institute manages the country's production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling this gold at prices prevailing in international gold markets. The export cost is transferred to the Ministry of Finance in Nicaraguan cordobas. The Central Bank sells gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement March 5. An arrangement was introduced, permitting the surrender of specified portions of proceeds from certain merchandise exports in return for nonnegotiable "certificates of foreign exchange availability." These certificates could be used for either the import require- ments of the producer of the exports or converted at the NICARAGUA exchange rate prevailing in the parallel market. The foreign exchange released through a conversion of exchange certificates into cordobas could be used by the f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for merchandise imports not eligi- ble for exchange at the official rate. (The new regulation was made applicable retroactively to agricultural exports of the 1981/82 crop year, even if they had already been sold.) February 15. A tax of C$5 per US$1 was introduced on purchases of foreign exchange in the official market for the importation of basic goods classified as nonessen- tial. (Essential basic goods, inc lud ing medicine, agricul- tural imports, petroleum and its derivatives, were not affected.) Prescription of Currency November 19. The member countries of the Central American Common Market (including Nicaragua) agreed to accept payment in local currencies for trade among themselves. Imports and Import Payments February 15. A tax of C$5 per US$1 was introduced on purchases of foreign exchange in the official market for imports of basic goods classified as nonessential. Exports and Export Proceeds February 13. The rates of the ad valorem export taxes on a number of agricultural products (including molas- ses, sesame, cotton, beef, sugar, and coffee) were lowered. In addition, exemption limits at lower interna- tional prices were raised, and rates above these limits were lowered for virtually all products and tax categories. August 27. In the context of the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Nicaraguan Central Bank agreed to open a US$20 million line of credit with the Costa Rican Central Bank for use by Costa Ricans importing from Nicaragua, and Costa Rica agreed to consolidate and reschedule over a seven-year period a US$70 million short-term loan to Nicaragua. (These proposals remained to be concluded.) Capital June 8. An agreement was signed w i th the Govern- ment of the Federal Republic of Germany to reschedule (a) a debt of DM 10 million owed to that Government at an annual interest rate of 3.7 percent, and (b) a loan of DM 24 million owed to the German private sector, at 9.75 percent a year. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Mone- tary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Transfers by the Treasury and the Postal Administration and transactions in bank notes and traveler's checks are exempted. Banks levy a com- mission, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury, on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Administration, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Planning, Commerce, and Transportation, subject to the visa of the External Finance Service, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Service. Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in B e n in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 348 the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with Nigeria are still effected through special accounts.3 Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are prohibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Plan- ning, Commerce, and Transportation. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, ir- respective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common African and Mauritian Organization, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a member country of the West African Economic Community. Imports from France and the Operations Account coun- tries of all goods other than those mentioned above (or those listed in Article 1 of Order No. 042/MC/DCE of October 18, 1982) may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the EC, many goods from other OECD countries and their past or present depen- 3 The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th Nigeria lapsed at the end of 1977. However, N iger con t inues to ma in ta in accounts w i th banks in N ige r ia credited w i th receipts of exports to Nigeria by certain pub l ic enterprises in N iger; the funds are used to f inance imports of oil from Nigeria by enterprises in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program determined each year by the Ministry of Planning, Commerce, and Transportation. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import trans- actions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c . i .f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Service if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or un t il eight days prior to the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Service, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the auth- orized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten years), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be sold w i th in eight days to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings from their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Service and is normally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, for bona fide reasons. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries, in addition to their travel allocation. Residents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank NIGER notes but, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the West African Monetary Union, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry ,4 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Planning, Commerce, and Transportation. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buy ing country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank w i th in one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account 4Th is amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase w i th CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000). 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance;5 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request postpone- ment of the project. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments con- stitute investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. 5 Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are d irec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in N iger. 6Inc lud ing those made by companies in Niger that are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 350 Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and fac i l i t ies under the Investment Code of J u ly 31, 1968 and its amending texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code have been ma in ta ined. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, w i th respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nation- als and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and fa l l ing w i th in specified categories of industrial activities. Such treat- ment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments June 17. Circular No. 018/MF/SPE was issued, modifying the regulations pertaining to forward ex- change cover for imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. Nigeria does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and pursues an independent and f lex ib le exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buy ing and selling rates are set at 0.25 percent on either side of the middle rate. On December 31, 1982 the middle rate against the U .S. dollar was US$1.4920 per N 1, and the buying and selling rates were US$1.4957 and US$1.4883, respectively, per N 1. The Central Bank of Nigeria also quotes daily rates at wh ich it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling. Cross rates are also available for other currencies.l All exchange dealings are for ap- proved transactions and are on a spot basis o n l y .2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. However, nongovernmental transactions are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts w i th residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency for delivery at a fu ture date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license or beyond the date of import, when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received w i th in three months of shipment or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for imports); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (other than 1 For example, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, and Swiss francs. 2The Central Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and is prepared to buy only those other currencies for wh ich it quotes daily rates. investments in f ish ing, shipping, and insurance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most com- mercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance w i th instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Fi- nance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and traveler's checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized w i th the Central Bank. The Central Bank supplies the authorized banks w i th foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Commerce and the Import Quota Committee, comprising officials of the Ministries of Commerce, Finance, Indus t ry, and Economic Devel- opment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the Department of Customs and Excise. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of West African states (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Ma l i, Mauri- tania, and Sierra Leone) are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for resi- dents of all countries. They may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other External Accounts, and w i th proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, w i th payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from services rendered locally, provided 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA that the operation of such accoun ts has been reported to and approval has been ob ta ined from the Cen t ral B ank before any fo re ign t ran s fe rs are e f fec ted. B locked Ac- coun ts are accounts to w h i ch are cred i ted f u n ds th at are blocked by d i rec t ives g iven under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Ac t. Imports and Import Payments* Impor ters mu st be registered if they w i sh to ob t a in i n d i v i d u al import l icen se s. A ll impor ts from N am i b ia (South West A f r ica) and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted, and the import of cer ta in spec i f ied commod i t ies is banned to protect local i n d u s t r i e s, to reduce impo r ts of l u x u ry goods, or for hea l th, sa fe ty, or re l ig ious reasons. Impor ta t ion of a few o ther commod i t ies also is pro- h ib i ted un le ss specific cond i t ions set out in the l icense au tho r iz ing such imports have been complied w i t h. Import l icenses are issued o n ly for goods th at cannot be ob ta ined loca l ly. I n d i v i d u al impo rt l icenses a re r equ i r ed for a numb er of items from all sources, i n c l u d i ng raw or m anu f a c tu r ed tobacco, ce r ta in types of paper, passenger au tomob i l es w i th an eng ine capac i ty of less t h an 2,000 cub ic cen t ime te r s, ce r ta in processed food p roduc t s, mu s i c al i n s t r um e n ts and e q u i pm e n t, pho tog raph ic op t i- cal e q u i pm e n t, spor t ing e q u i pm e nt not m a n u f a c t u r ed lo c a l ly, and va r ious a lcoho l ic beverages. Impo r ts t h at are n e i th er p roh ib i ted nor sub ject to spec i f ic l i c e n s i ng may be imported u n d er open general l icense from any coun t ry o ther th an N am i b ia and Sou th A f r i c a. Some imports are effec ted e x c l u s i v e ly by an au tonomous p u b l ic agency, the N i g e r ia N a t ion al S u p p ly Comp any, Ltd. For all import t ransac t ions v a lu ed at N 5,000 or more, the import documen ts m u st inc lude a c lean report of f i n d i n gs issued by the Societe Genera le du S u r v e i l l- ance (SGS), of Geneva, w h i ch inspects the goods and verifies the pr ice, q u a l i t y, and q u a n t i ty in the coun t ry of or ig in or s h i pm e n t. Au tho r ized dealers may prov ide fo re ign exchange for authorized imports at s ight of sh ipp ing documen ts or in accordance w i th such cred it te rms as may be arranged between impor ter and exporter ( sub ject to the app roval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the M i n i s t ry of Finance for the p u b l ic sector). Impo rt p aym en ts exceed ing N 100,000 or impo rt con trac ts exceed ing N 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit mu st be registered w i th the Cen t ral Bank and the M i n i s t ry of Commerce, re spec t ive ly. Payment in advance of sh ip- ment requ i res the approval of the Cen t ral B a n k, except where prepayment is made aga inst a le t ter of c red i t. Advance import deposits are requ i red for a ll impo r t s, r ang ing from 10 percent of v a lue for raw m a t e r i a l s, to 15 percent for spare par ts, to 50 percent for books, food ( ex c lud ing r ice ), m ed i c am en t s, b u i l d i ng m a t e r i a l s, and capital goods, to 200 percent for motor v eh i c l es and t ruck s, and to 250 percent for motor cars and all o ther goods. For imports und er le t ters of c red i t, impo r te rs ' 'B e g i n n i ng J anu a ry 2, 1983 import res t r ic t ions were f u r t h er t i g h t- ened by means of sharp increases in impo rt d u t i es and the a d d i t i on of import i t ems in over 150 t a r i ff ca tegor ies to the impo rt l i c e n s i ng l i s t. 352 m u st lodge advance deposits w i th th e ir commerc ial b anks on open ing letters of c red i t. In respect of imports u n d er usance b i l ls m a t u r i ng less th an 6 mon ths from the date of s h i pm e nt of goods to N i g e r i a, and b i l ls for co l l e c t ion and p a ym e n ts on account of less than 6 m o n t h s' d u r a t i on from the date of sh ipm ent of goods to N i g e r i a, the advance deposits are to be paid w i t h in a period not less th an 10 days before the arr ival of goods at N i g e r i an ports. In a ll cases, the advance deposits, wh i ch do not earn any in t e r e s t, are requ i red to be kept in a separate account and deposited w i th the Central Bank of N i g e r ia w i t h in 3 days a f ter the end of the mon th. For s ight t r an s a c t ion s, the impo r ter mu st present the cus toms b i ll of en try w i t h in 90 days after the allocation of foreign exchange. The p resen ta t ion of a tax clearance cer t if ica te cove r ing the p reced ing three years is a prerequ is i te for the g ran t ing of exchange control approval for all import t ran sac t ion s. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es to res iden ts of other coun tr ies are sub ject to i n d i v i d u al approva l; for some categories of i n v i s i b l es t h is is gran ted by au tho r ized dealers, e i ther up to spec i f ied l im i ts or up to the amount of the b i ll or invo i c e. A p p l i c a t i o ns for paymen ts that cannot be approved by au tho r ized dea lers and are not among those ( s u ch as p ro f i ts and d i v i d e n d s )4 that requ i re approval by the M i n i s t ry of F inance are forwarded to the Central Bank for dec i s ion. A ll in su rance other th an that for w h i ch f a c i l i t i es do not ex i st in N i g e r ia mu st be taken out w i th a company in N i g e r i a, and a ll insu rance compan ies ope ra t ing in the c o u n t ry mu st re insu re w i th the N a t ion al In su r an ce Corpora t ion. Re s iden ts are e n t i t l ed to a basic tou r ist travel a l low- ance in fore ign exchange up to a l im it equ iv a l ent to N 500 a person a year (no a l lowance for ch i ld ren under 16 yea r s ). There is also a separate a l lowance for p i l g r im s; each p i l g r im 16 years and older is en t i t led to a m a x im um of N 800. The basic travel allowance and that for the p i l g r ims a re m u t u a l ly exc lu s ive; that is, no i n d i v i d u al may ob t a in the two in one f iscal year. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by au tho r ized dea le rs. In add i t ion, travel agents and sh ip- p i ng and a i r l i ne compan ies in N ige r ia may sell transpor- 4P r o f i ts and d i v i d e nd p a ym e n ts rem i t ted abroad and d isbu rsed l o c a l ly may not exceed 30 percent of a c om p a n y 's c ap i t al s tock. New p r o f i ts and d i v i d e n ds may be r em i t t ed as soon as th ey are dec la red, provided t h a t, in the case of a i r l i ne and s h i p p i ng compan ies, a tax at the ra te of 10 pe rcent is p a i d. The tax is he ld on account u n t il corporate tax r e t u r ns a re assessed and t i l e d. R em i t t a n c es of t e c h n i c al fees, manage- m e nt fees, and r o y a l t i es a re p e rm i t t ed w h en it can be shown th at these a re re la ted to the impo rt of mode rn t e c h n o l o g y. P a ym e n ts for t e c h n i c al and m a n a g em e nt fees r e q u i re app rov al by the M i n i s t ry of F in an c e. A m a x i m um of 2 percent of p r o f it before tax is p e rm i t t ed. For new comp an i es a l u mp sum is app l ied in l i eu of the 2 percent of p r o f it before tax for the f i r st th ree yea rs. S i m i l ar po l i c i es a re app l i c ab le to o ther p a ym e n ts for se rv ice s, such as those r e l a t i ng to copy r igh ts and t r a d em a r k s. In the case of r o y a l t i e s, ex ch ange a l low an ce is based on v o l ume of sa les, sub ject to a m a x i m um of 1 percent except for books and m u s i c al records, w h i ch a re trea ted on a case-by-case basis in re la t ion to i n t e r n a t i o n al prac t ice. Foreign consu l tan ts perform ing p ro f e s s ion al se rv ices in N i g e r ia a re a l low ed to r em it to t h e ir associates abroad up to 30 pe rcent of the am o u nt con t rac ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tation tickets for any des t ina t ion against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, e tc ., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange allowance for bus iness travel is l im i ted to N 100 a day, for a m a x im um of 25 days a year, w i th an annual l im it of N 2,500. Res iden ts w i sh ing to travel abroad for medical reasons shou ld u t i l ize the ir basic travel a l lowance for t h is purpose. An allowance up to N 2,000 is ava i lab le for su rge ry, and additional amoun ts in excess of N 2,000 are provided when supporting evidence is subm i t ted. Foreign ex- change is granted for all bona fide expenses for educa- tion beyond the p r ima ry leve l. Foreign exchange a l low- ances for e lemen tary school educa t ion abroad are not granted except in special cases, such as those of handicapped ch i ld r en for whom educa t ional f a c i l i t i es are not ava i lab le lo c a l ly. Exchange app l ica t ions for most non tou r i st t ravel m u st be subm i t ted to the Cen tral B a n k. Rem i t tances by res iden ts for g i ft purposes are l im i t ed to N 150 a year for i n d i v i d u a ls and N 500 for ch a r i t ab le o rgan iza t ion s. Foreign n a t ion a ls r e s id ing in N i g e r ia may pu rchase a n n u a l ly fo re ign cu r rency up to 50 percent of t h e ir net income for a ll personal rem i t tances ( i n c l u d i ng i n s u r a n c e, educa t ion, med ical expen se s, p rov ident f u nd c o n t r i b u- t ion s, sund ry p a ym e n t s, and the basic t r av el a l l ow a n c e ); app l ica t ions in excess of t h is l i m it a re e x am i n ed on t h e ir me r i ts by the Cen t ral B a n k. Wh en t a k i ng overseas leave, fo re ign n a t i o n a ls may also convert up to th ree m o n t h s' pay in to fore ign ex ch ang e. Res iden ts are p e rm i t t ed to take out the e q u i v a l e nt of th e ir basic travel a l low an ce in fo r e ign cu r r en cy notes and t r a v e l e r 's checks; n o n r e s i d e nt v i s i to rs may take out any fo re ign cu r rency notes and t r av e l e rs c h e c k 's t h at were declared upon e n t r y, m i n us t he am o u nt conve r ted l o c a l ly in to N i g e r i an c u r r e n c y. T rave le rs may t ake out N 50 in domes t ic notes and c o i n; a ll o ther expo rt of N i g e r i an cu r rency notes and co in is p r o h i b i t e d. Exports and Export Proceeds Expo r ts to N a m i b ia and Sou th A f r i ca a re p r o h i b i t e d. Expor ts of bean s, cassava, f lou r, g r o u n d n ut o i l, m a i z e, m i l k, p a lm o i l, r ice, s u g a r, t im b e r, a nd p r e v i o u s ly impo r ted food i tems are p r o h i b i t e d, as are expo r ts of exp lo s iv e s, o ther t h an i n d u s t r i al e x p l o s i v e s. Expo r ts of ca t t le and g r o u n d n u ts have been su spended. I n d i v i d u al export l icenses are r equ i r ed for c iga re t tes and tobacco, h ides a nd s k i n s, c o l um b i t e, t a n t a l i t e, u n r e f i n ed go ld, pe t ro leum p roduc t s, goods made w h o l ly or p a r t ly of impor ted componen t s, wh e at o f f a l s, d ry b r ew e r 's g r a i n s, and produc ts sub ject to con t rol by the M a r k e t i ng Boards (cocoa, co t ton, co t tonseed, b e n n i s e e d, g r o u n d n u t s, g r o u n d n ut o i l, p a lm k e r n el o i l, a nd p a lm k e r n e l s ). T he sale abroad of all expo rt crops pu r ch a s ed by the M a r k e t i ng Boards is the r e s p o n s i b i l i ty of each M a r k e t i ng Board und er the general g u i d a n ce of the Export Com- mod i ty Coo rd ina t ing C o u n c i l. The expo rt of ce r ta in goods (A f r i c an a n t i q u es or wo rks of art and objects t h at NIGERIA are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is p roh ib i ted, except under prescribed conditions. Ex- ports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. All other goods may be exported w i thout a l icense. Export proceeds mu st be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank w i th in three mon ths of sh ipmen t. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum produc ts, however, are exempt from the surrender requ i remen ts. For all exports, the exporter is required to s u bm it an exchange control declaration at the time of sh ipm en t. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts from inv i s ib l es in fore ign currencies must be offered for sale to an au thor ized dealer, for surrender to the Cen tral B a n k. Persons en te r ing N ige r ia may freely b r ing in fore ign bank notes, but mu st encash such fore ign cu r rency w i th an au tho r ized dealer who mu s t, in t u r n, surrender it to the Cen tral B ank. Travelers may b r ing in N 50 in domes t ic currency; all other import of N ig e r i an cu r rency notes and coin is proh ib i ted. Capital Except for the purpose of f i n a n c i ng impor ts or expo r ts, pe rm iss ion is requ i red from the M i n i s t ry of F inance for any i n d i v i d u a l, f i rm, company, or b ranch re s ident in N i g e r ia to borrow abroad. In add i t ion, o f f ic ial agenc ies and s ta te -con t ro l led corporations requ ire the pr ior approval of the M i n i s t ry of F inance for any fore ign bo r row ing. The con t r a c t ing of supp l i e r s' credit abroad by s ta te -con t ro l led corporations or agencies also is sub ject to app roval by the M i n i s t ry of F inance. The pe rm i s s ion of the M i n i s t ry of F inance is requ ired for bo r row ing in N i g e r ia ( 1) by a ny non res ident i n d i v i d u al or comp any and (2) by any company registered in N i g e r ia (o th er t h an a b a n k) w h i ch is con tro l led d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly f rom ou t s ide N i g e r i a. Howeve r, to enab le e n t i t i es m e n t i o n ed u n d er (2) to meet tempo ra ry shortages of f u n d s, l icen sed b a n ks in N i g e r ia may g rant loans or ov e rd r a f ts for pe r iods not exceed ing 14 d ay s, or may inc rea se the am o u nt of any advance or ove rd ra ft by the am o u nt of loan in t e r e st or b a nk charges p ay ab le th e r eon. G e n e r al p e rm i s s i on is a lso g i v en for any lo an, b a nk ov e rd r a f t, or o ther c red it f a c i l i ty to be arranged to f i n a n ce N i g e r i an impo r ts or expor ts of goods. R e s id en ts of N i g e r ia may not deal in fo re ign cu r rency s e cu r i t i es or buy from or se ll to non res iden ts of N i g e r ia any s e cu r i ty p ay ab le in n a i ra w i t h o ut the pe rm i s s ion of the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. The cap i tal proceeds of secu r i- t ies registered in N i g e r ia and owned by non r e s id en ts may be co l lec ted and nego t ia ted t h r o u gh au tho r i z ed dea le rs, p rov ided that the p r ior p e rm i s s ion of the M i n i s t ry of F inance is o b t a i n e d. Exchange for the t r an s f er of ce r ta in assets by em i- g ran ts or repa t r ia tes is g ran ted on f i n al depa r tu re from the c o u n t r y, but the t r an s f er of the proceeds of assets rea l ized in order to comp ly w i th the N i g e r i an En te rp r ises Promo t ion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon rece ip t. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equ i ty capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration w i ll be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in N iger ia unless th is forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal M in is try of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of U . K. gold coin requires a license from the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bu l l ion are free of du ty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments March 23. The issuance of letters of credit and the processing of M forms used for releasing foreign exchange were temporarily suspended. April 20. Three items were added to the prohibited list and 29 groups of items to the list of imports subject to import licensing. The prohibited items were gam ing machines, frozen chicken, and R20(U2) batteries. The 29 items consisted of manufactured articles of wood of all types, including f lush doors, preprinted papers and forms, all passenger cars, umbrella handles, plastic pipes, concentrated malt extracts, motorycles and bicy- cles, yarn of man-made fiber, automobile tires, cotton yarn of all types, cereal f lours, na i ls, bolts, and nu t s, processed barite and bentonite, assembled road and agricultural tractors, cement, real madras, bu lk tea, vegetable oil (excluding bu lk importation), louver 354 blades, f ish ing nets, rice, fu rn i tu re fabr ics, ju te and vegetable fiber, asbestos, cement pipes, sugar, pickup delivery vans, ceramic products ( inc lud ing ceramic s inks, water bas ins, bidets, water closets, pans, ur ina ls, baths, wall tiles, and the like sanitary fixtures), and components of all previously listed goods, assembled or disassembled, exc lud ing components imported under approved user license. April 20. New or higher rates of import duties were placed on 42 groups of items. They are stockfish, bu lk tea, rice, cereal f lours, beet and sugarcane, other sugar, tomato paste and puree, extracts and concentrates of coffee and tea, cement, umbre l la handles, automobile tires, cigarette paper, preprinted papers, yarn and man- made fibers, cotton linters, real madras, fabrics for the production of im i ta t ion leather, brake l in ing and disc pads, cloth for the manufac ture of lace and embroidery, hoop and strips of iron or steel, bolts and nu ts, electric fans, electronics, fabricated structural steel, kerosene stoves and parts, camera and cinematograph motors and parts, tractors for hau l ing trailers, and agricultural tractors, pickup and delivery panel vans, passenger cars, components for passenger cars, completely knocked down carriers, trucks, bicycles and tricycles, parts and accessories of motorcycles and bicycles, baby carriages and parts, wheelbarrows, motorcycles, batteries, watches and clocks, clocks and watch parts, and gramophones, record players, tape recorders, and tape decks. Duties on lotion and cream for baby care and baby feeding bottles were lowered. April 20. Concession duties were introduced for users of rubberized textile fabrics, completely knocked down components imported by approved users, outboard en- gines, generators and generating sets, and completely knocked down components of electricity supply meters. Passenger cars exceeding N 15,000 in value or with an engine capacity of more than 2,500 cubic centimeters were removed from the prohibition list, but, simul- taneous ly, a 500 percent ad valorem du ty was imposed on them. April 20. The processing of M forms and the issuance of letters of credit were resumed. S imu l taneous ly, advance import deposits were imposed, ranging from 25 percent for raw materials and spare parts, to 50 percent for books, food (exc lud ing rice), medicaments, bu i ld ing materials, and capital goods, to 200 percent for motor vehicles and trucks, and to 250 percent for motor cars and all other goods. For imports under letters of credit, importers were required to take advance deposits to their commercial banks before letters of credit were opened for them. In respect of imports under usance bills ma tur ing less than six months from the date of shipment of goods to Nigeria, and bills for collection and payments on account of less than six months' duration from the date of sh ipment of goods to N iger ia, the advance deposits were to be paid w i th in a period of not less than 10 days before the arrival of goods at Nigerian ports. In all cases, the advance deposits, wh ich did not earn any interest, were required to be kept in a separate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA account and deposited w i th the Central Bank of N iger ia w i th in three days after the end of the mon th. April 20. All imports, except those valued under N 5,000, were subject to the preshipment import surveillance scheme. June 28. Import licenses wou ld be issued on ly for goods that could not be obtained domestically. September 17. Some of the import restrictions that were initiated in Apr il were eased. However, procedures under wh ich a number of commodities were imported were tightened, and the number of agencies in N iger ia banned from importing goods were increased. ance was reduced from N 800 to N 500 a person; there is no allowance for children under the age of 16 years; (2) allowance for p i lgr ims approved by the Nigerian Pil- grims Board remained at N 800 a year for each person 16 years and older. The basic travel allowance and that for the p i lgr ims were m u t u a l ly exclusive; that is, no indi- v idual could obtain the two in one fiscal year; and (3) foreign exchange allowance for business travel was reduced from N 3,000 to N 2,500 a year (N 100 a day for a m ax imum of 25 days a year). No individual trip would be allowed to extend beyond 15 days. Payments for Invisibles April 20. The fo l low ing changes in paymen ts for inv is ib les took place: ( 1) the basic annual travel a l low- Export and Export Proceeds April 20. Wheat offals and dry brewer's grain were placed under export licensing restriction. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 3 J, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the No rweg ian K rone. The external va lue of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 14 currencies most impo r tant to N o rw a y 's external trade and paymen t s. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only l im i ted f luc tua t ions around the benchmark for the e f fec t ive v a l u e. The w e igh ts of the index are, in p r in c ip l e, based on N o rw a y 's exports of processed goods to each of the coun t r ies whose cu r ren- cies are inc luded, t ak ing also in to account comp e t i t ive re la t ions w i th th i rd coun t r ies. The exchange rate of the krone for the U . S. do l la r, the p r in c ip al i n t e r v e n t i on currency, is f ixed da i ly on the bas is of the average we igh ted va r ia t ions in quo t a t ions for the U . S. do l l ar in re la t ion to the other currenc ies in the b a sk e t. On December 3 1, 1982 the b u y i ng and s e l l i ng rates for the U .S. dollar were NKr 7.043 and NKr 7.065, respec- t i v e l y, per US$1. Forward p r em i ums and d i s coun ts are le ft to the in te rp lay of ma rket forces. Au t h o r i z ed b a n k s' forward transac t ions w i th nonb ank re s iden ts m u st have a commercial bas is. There are no taxes or s u b s i d i es on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. No rway fo rm a l ly accepted the o b l i g a t i o ns of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as from May 1 1, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the M i n i s t ry of Finance and Customs in cooperation w i th the B a nk of No rw ay. A u t h o r i ty to approve most cu r rent p a ym e n ts has been delegated to au tho r ized b a n k s. Impo rt and export l icenses, when requ i red, are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and S h i p p i ng and, in ce r ta in cases, by the M i n i s t ry of A g r i c u l t u re or the M i n i s t ry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th a ll coun t r ies may be made in any convertible currency, inc lud ing Norweg ian kroner in Convertible Krone Accoun ts (see section on Non r e s id ent Accoun ts, be low ). Nonresident Accounts The ma in type of non res ident account is the Conver t- ib le Krone Accoun t. Such accoun ts may be he ld by residents of all countries. They may be credited w i th au thor ized paymen ts from any coun t ry, w i th t ran s fe rs from other Conve r t ib le Krone Accoun t s, and w i th proceeds from the sale in No rway of conv e r t ib le curren- cies. They may be debited for authorized paymen ts from any coun try to residents of No rway, for t ran s fe rs to o ther Convertible Krone Accoun ts, and for pu rchases in No rway of any foreign cu r rency. Au tho r ized b anks are permitted to open foreign exchange accoun ts for non res i- 356 den t s, sub ject to the arrangemen ts for b ank s' borrowing abroad (see section on C ap i t a l, b e l ow ) .' Imports and Import Payments Most commod i t ies do not requ i re an import l icense. Ce r ta in t e x t i l es and ga rmen ts o r ig in a t ing in coun t r ies outside the EC and the EFTA are subject to global quo ta s. Ce r ta in o ther t e x t i l es and ga rmen ts are subject to import l i c e n s i ng for su rv e i l l an ce purposes. There is a res tr ic ted l i st of impo r ts of a l im i t ed numb er of indu s t r ial goods; howeve r, m any of the goods on th is l i st are l icensed a u t om a t i c a l l y. W i th these excep t ions, i n d u s t r i al goods may be impor ted f ree ly upon presen ta t ion of the o r ig in al invo i c e. Impo r ts of c e r t a in a g r i c u l t u r al goods are res tr ic ted, i r respec t ive of o r i g i n. A g lobal quota l i st con ta ins a few quo t as for a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc ts for w h i ch imports are perm i t ted up to f ixed l im i t s; these quotas apply to all c o u n t r i e s. New and secondhand sh ips other than sh ips th at are 20 years old or o lde r, and cer ta in categories of f i s h i ng vesse ls, may be imported f r e e l y ,2 but special p e rm i s s ion is requ i red in order to en su re comp l iance w i th the r e g u l a t i o ns rega rd ing paymen ts in advance of d e l i v e r y. The import of rad io e q u i pm e nt and radio con trol equ ipm ent is subject to approval by the Direc- torate of T e l e commun i c a t ion s. The impo rt of a sma ll n um b er of commod i t ies is p roh ib i t ed for hea l th and s im i l ar reasons, and ce r ta in goods (some g ra in s, alco- ho l ic beverages, f i s h i ng gear made of tex t i le ma te r ia l s, p h a rm a c e u t i c al p roduc t s, and d rug s) are imported by gov e rnm ent monopo l ie s. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts to any coun t ry for a ll cu r rent i n v i s i b l e s, i n c l u d i ng income from cap i tal and con t rac tual amortiza- t i o n, may be made f ree ly. The authorized bank s, howeve r, r equ i re v e r i f i c a t i on if the p aym ent exceeds the e q u i v a l e nt of NKr 2,000. The bas ic exchange a l low an ce for tou r ist t ravel abroad is the e q u i v a l e nt of NKr 10,000 a t r ip for each person. For b u s i n e ss t r a v e l, the banks may se ll reasonable am o u n t s. Each person l e a v i ng No rway may take w i th h im up to NKr 2,000 in Norwegian bank notes. Non r e s id en ts l e av ing No rw ay m a y, in add i t ion, export any fo re ign b ank notes b rought in to the coun t ry by th em. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported f ree ly to any coun t ry 1 R e s i d e n ts a lso may open fo re ign exchange accounts. The customer m u st h a ve bo th in come a nd e x p e n d i t u re in fo re ign cu r r en c i e s. H o l d i n gs in the se a c c o u n ts m u st not exceed the am o u nt requ i red to cover o b l i g a t i o ns d ue in t he imm e d i a te f u t u r e. 2 A u t om a t ic a u t h o r i z a t i on is not g ran ted for impo r ts from A l b a n i a, Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, Macao, Mongo l ia, and V iet N a m. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition, fish, and fish products, this limit is NKr 500. If payment is not received within 12 months of delivery, a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping is required. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted free ly, and nonresident capital may be repapatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresi- dent interests are subject to approval. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase shares and bearer bonds in Norwe- gian banking and industrial f irms. However, a ceiling of NKr 1 million an investor applies to nonresidents' purchase of listed Norwegian bearer bonds .3 Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, g if ts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of imm igran ts' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Oil companies have general permission to hold their foreign currency assets as bank deposits and other short-term instruments w i th a maturity up to 12 months and may, after special permission from the Bank of Norway, hold foreign currency assets with a maturity longer than 12 months. Norwegian shipowners, insurance companies, and bro- kers may open accounts of 30 days' maturity with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of Norway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts. On special application, permission may be given by the Bank for Norwegian firms hav ing long-term currency debt to hold time deposits abroad in foreign currency and to purchase foreign bonds quoted on 3As an exception, foreign insurance companies may, on approval of application, invest in listed Norwegian bearer bonds in amoun ts exceeding this ceiling, in order to cover their needs for technical reserves. NORWAY recognized stock exchanges, without limit on the matur- ity of such assets. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally, but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resi- dent-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mu tual fund s, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 400,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business f irms, staff associations, etc., are approved for higher amounts. There are limits on authorized banks' borrowing abroad. Authorized banks have to balance their com- bined spot and forward positions in foreign currency at the end of the day w i th in narrow margins varying between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the Ministry of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. Borrowing abroad in connection w i th imports of ships must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping. All other inward transfers of capital by nonbank residents require approval by the Bank of Norway. Incurring or providing guarantee obligations abroad also requires approval by the Bank of Norway. W i th the exception of loans to the petroleum sector, shipping, and shipyards, short-term foreign borrowing by Norwegian commercial enterprises must be w i th in an overall l im it equ iva lent to US$566 million for 1982. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewe lry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coin are subject to the regular value- added tax at a rate of 20 percent. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement August 2. In the first change since the currency basket for the determination of the exchange rate of the krone was introduced in 1978, the Canadian dollar and the Aus tr ian schilling were added to the basket, and the weights of the other component currencies were revised to reflect Norway's export of processed goods to the respective countries, taking also into account competi- tive relations w i th third countries; the adoption of the new weights involved a depreciation of the krone in terms of these weights by about 3 percent. September 6. The Norwegian krone was devalued by 3 percent in terms of the basket of currencies to wh ich it was pegged. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Current Invisibles January 1. The prohibition against import or export of Norwegian bank notes in higher denominations than NKr 100 was abolished. Capital February 1. The l im it of NKr 1 m i l l ion on nonresident purchases of Norwegian shares was abolished. February 1. The l im it on outward transfers for the purpose of purchas ing real estate for recreational pur- poses was increased from NKr 350,000 to NKr 400,000 a f am i l y. February 24. The Bank of Norway, in cooperation w i th the Norwegian M in i s t ry of Finance, set up an upper l im it of US$566 m i l l i on for short-term loans taken abroad by Norweg ian commercial enterprises in 1982. Short-term loans to the petroleum sector, shipping, and shipyards were exempted. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the R ial Oman i, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman ava i ls itself of w ider margins. The Central Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar; on Decem- ber 31, 1982 these rates were RO 1 = US$0.34505 and RO 1 = US$0.34574, respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control leg is la t ion in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, and the use of the ir currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency requ ire- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of hea l th, security, or pub l ic po l icy. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are proh ib i ted. Licenses are required for imports; exchange for paymen ts abroad for authorized imports may be obtained f ree ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted, and exports or re-exports of l ive an ima ls and foodstuffs may be proh ib i ted in t imes of shortage in Oman. All other commod i t ies may be exported free ly. There are no requ iremen ts attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the currency invo lved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must no t, however, be made to or be received from Israel or South Afr ica. Travelers may br ing in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonres iden ts, except that no paymen ts may be made to or received from Israel or South A f r ica. Inves tment in business f i rms in Oman by foreign phys ical or ju r id ical persons requires prior approva l. Such inves tment is regulated by a foreign inve s tment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janua ry 1977 and Augu st 1978, and by a law for the Organiza- t ion and Encouragement of Indu s t ry, wh ich came into effect on J a n u a ry 15, 1979. Gold The monetary au tho r i t ies and all other residents and non res iden ts, i n c l u d i ng pr iva te persons, may, w i thout l icense, pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form w i t h o ut a license and w i thout payment of any cus toms du t ies or tax. Transactions invo lv ing Israel and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Changes during 1982 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U .S. dollar is the intervention currency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at which it w i ll purchase and sell U .S. dollars in its dealings w i th authorized dealers. On December 31, 1982 the State Bank's buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 12.84 and PRs 12.8556, respectively, per US$1. All transactions with the public in foreign exchange must be conducted through author- ized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In calculating spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.0625 percent is provided on either side of the mean rate based on the previous day 's closing buy ing and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U .S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward con- tracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits, as well as the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transac- tions are conducted through various state-trading agen- cies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are chan- neled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a 360 nonresident bank account of the country of the benefi- ciary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified com- modities w i th Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts w i th the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. are maintained in nonconvertible U .S. dollars, and the special account with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is denominated in deutsche mark. Payments to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U .S. dollars. In the case of transactions with the Islamic Republic of Iran, uncleared balances beyond a l im it of US$2 m i l l ion are settled through a special account. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the Asian Clearing Union other than the Islamic Republic of Iran ( i .e ., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) may be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts through the Asian Clearing Union or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such transactions. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies resident outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open non- resident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened w i th funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nation- als, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts w i th banks in Pakistan w i thout 1 D i f fe rent rules app ly to nonresident rupee accounts of i n d i v i d u a l s, f i rms, or companies, on the one h a n d, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prior approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies. There are no restrictions on the currencies in wh ich the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified into two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the tied list may be procured only from tied sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U .S. P.L. 480 program. Imports of items not on either list are effectively prohibited, except under certain circumstances (principally by export indus tr ies) as men- tioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in trans i t, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from A fghan is tan and the Islamic Republic of I ran, and certain other items per- mitted under a M in is try of Commerce No t i f ica t ion. Licenses for all items on the free and tied lists are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports .2 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months but when machinery is specifically manu fac tu red, licenses can be obtained w i th a va l id i ty period of up to 24 mon ths. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 2 percent of the va lue of the license, payable at the time of issue. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qua l if ica t ions, the most important of wh ich are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, as are imports of goods or ig ina t ing in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import from Ind ia 40 specified items of the free l ist through the TCP. Imports of other importable goods from India ( inc lud ing goods of Ind ian origin from a third country) are allowed only for the public sector. (2) In order to fac i l i ta te barter trading and u t i l iza t ion of aid and to secure economies through bu lk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured w i th U .S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the pub l ic sector or to industrial consumers. Dates may be imported only from Iraq. (4) Special provisions exist for the import by export industries of items on the tied l ist from nontied sources and items not on either import l is t. Machinery not on either import list may also be imported by nonexporting industries up to specified amoun ts. (5) Private sector importers, other than those importing 2 At present no l icens ing restrictions are applied to perm i t ted imports by the private sector of all raw ma te r ia ls (except for yarn made of syn the t ic f ibe r ), all capital goods, and most consumer goods. For other permitted imports of consumer goods, l icen s ing ce i l ings are app l ied equ iva lent to 125 percent of the va lue of imports d u r i ng 1981/82 ( Ju ly- Jun e ). Ex is t ing importers may use on ly 100 percent of the allocation w i th the rema in ing 25 percent set aside for new importers. PAKISTAN goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (6) The max imum c. & f. va lues for wh ich licenses for the import of machinery and m i ll work can be issued against various sources of f inanc ing to d i f fe rent categories are (a) up to PRs 2.5 m i l l ion, for commercial importers, subject to value restrictions of PRs 0.25 m i l l ion a un it of ma- chinery or spares; (b) up to PRs 15 m i l l ion, for new un i ts invo lv ing a total capital outlay of PRs 30 m i l l ion and not fa l l ing w i th in the restricted list of industries ( i .e ., those wh ich are permitted to be set up w i thout sanction of any government agency); (c) up to PRs 2.5 m i l l ion, for new un i ts not covered by (b) above; (d) up to PRs 10 m i l l ion, for expansion of existing un i ts not fa l l ing w i th in the restricted l ist of industries; (e) up to PRs 2.5 m i l l ion, for expansion of existing un i ts not covered by (d) above; and (f) up to PRs 5 m i l l ion, for licenses for balancing, modernization, and replacement of a un i t. Procurement of plant and equipment of a higher value is effected by the f inanc ing institutions, w i th the approval of the M in is t ry of Indus t ry. Except for imports of books, journa ls, periodicals, and magazines, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened w i th in 60 days after registration of the license w i th the State Bank for private and public sector imports, or within 60 days after issuance of the license in the case of imports under barter agreements. For imports under tied loans or credits, wh ich require that the contract be approved by the Economic A f fa i rs D iv is ion or another specified agency, licenses for both private and pub l ic sector imports remain va l id for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days after f inal approval of the contract. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum products w i th in the va l id i ty period of the unde r ly ing license. Remittances are not no rma l ly permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e .g ., machinery and other capital goods for wh ich deposits have to be paid to foreign manu fac tu re rs, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Afr ica. W i th specified excep t ions ,3 the State Bank requires banks to take ^ I n d u s t r i al mach ine ry ( i n c l u d i ng a ll cap i tal goods but ex c lud ing consumer du r ab l e s ), ag r i cu l tu r al mach ine ry and components and spares of such m a ch in e ry, raw ma ter ia ls used by i ron, steel, and sh ipb reak ing indu s t r ie s, all raw ma ter ia ls imported by manu fac tu re rs of electrical equ ipmen t, capital goods and engineering goods ( inc lud ing cycles and a g r i c u l t u r al im p l em e n t s ), chassis of t ruck s, buses, jeeps in comp le te ly knocked -down cond i t ion, construction and eng ineer ing e q u i pm e n t, med ic ine s, drugs, and med ical and su rg ical equ ipment and app l iances, pha rmaceu t ical raw ma te r ia ls, med ic inal herbs and crude drugs, X-ray f i lm s, a r t i f i c i al l imbs and hear ing aids and parts thereof, raw ma te r ia ls by m anu f a c tu r e rs of fe r t i l ize rs and pes t ic ides, fer t i l izers and pesticides, raw ma te r ia ls for the vegetable and ed ib le o il indu s t ry, crude oil and pe t ro leum products, n ew sp r in t, vegetable seeds, tea, books, magaz ines, jou rn a ls and periodicals, secondhand c lo th ing, raw j u t e, ju te bags, cemen t, i tems on the tied l is t, imports under barter, pu lses, raw ma ter ia ls aga inst import licenses issued under the Export Performance ( RM R) Scheme, and motorcycles and motor scooters and a u t o - r i c k s h aws (comp le te ly knocked-down cond i t ion ), by f i rms wh ich have been g i v en sanc t ion for "progressive" manu fac tu re under the de le t ion program. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN minimum margins against import letters of credit at the following rates: 25 percent for milk and cream ( inc lud ing baby food), butter, and industrial materials other than those specified elsewhere and 35 percent for synthetic yarn and all items not listed above. Imports by the TCP are exempt from the margin requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of the TCP in relation to the import of any commodities through the TCP (except bleaching powder and imports under the Raw Material Replenish- ment (RMR) Scheme) are subject to the same m in imum margin requirements as are prescribed for import letters of credit for these commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Africa. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remit- tances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected w i th imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except w i th respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out w i th insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign impor- ters or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max imum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regula- tions apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's ap- proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$1,000 a person a trip for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad; this allocation can be taken up once every two years. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and spon- sored cultural trips may be granted on an ind iv idual basis. Student allowances for study abroad range from US$3,817 to US$5,703 depending on region. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Exporters of goods w i th annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$130 a day up to US$3,900 for each business trip. 362 Foreigners leaving Pakistan within six months from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out any amount of Afghan currency. Nationals working abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three months the foreign ex- change they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three months from the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 a person). Larger amounts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on entry. Nationals whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, including foreign cur- rency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a family, provided these amounts were deposited by them with an authorized dealer immediately on arrival in Pakistan. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and traveler's checks sold by authorized banks under permission issued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make fam i ly remittances of up to US$500 a month from their net income in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited .4 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, exports of certain specified items are subject to export quotas (namely, maize, gram, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or m in imum export prices (such as hand-knotted carpets up to 96 knots and certain varieties of onyx blocks). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton although private ex- porters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corpora- tion. Chemical fertilizers and some chemicals may be exported only by the TCP or other public sector agencies. Goods consigned to India can be exported only by public sector agencies. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment w i ll be received in accordance w i th the prescribed method and w i th in the prescribed period of time except for goods manufactured in the export processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds w i th in four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval by the State Bank, grant deferred 4 Prohibited exports in c lude ferrous and nonferrous metals (exc lud- ing iron and steel manu fac tu red goods), edible oils, grains, dairy products, animal fats, beef, mu t ton, timber, certain hides and skins, pu lses and beans, wet b lue lea ther, wheat bran, wheat straw, and charcoa l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payment terms. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except cotton,5 wool, rice, hides and skins, and wet blue leather) based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, or, alternatively, on the basis of the previous year's export performance of the exporter as advance limit on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. Fiscal rebates are paid on the f .o .b. value of cotton textile exports, engineering goods, and other exports as follows: yarn (7.5 percent), gray cloth (10 percent); and finished cloth, made-up textiles (including canvas footwear) containing at least 50 percent cotton by weight, engineering goods (including domestically produced engineering goods supplied lo- cally against international tender), acetate yarn, cutlery, surgical instruments, sporting goods, hand-knotted woolen carpets, and leather goods (12.5 percent). Fifty-five percent of income derived from exports (except those of raw cotton and such other goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue) is exempt from tax. Industrial un i ts estab- lished under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, crushed bones, and onyx blocks. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, wh ich may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invis- ibles must be surrendered w i th in three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector w i thout conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved indus- trial projects with the sanction of the Government may 5 Export finance is allowed against export of cotton th rough the CECP. PAKISTAN be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatria- tion facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guaran- tees provide for ju st and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transac- tions can be repatriated at any t ime, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, exc lud ing shares of public or private l im i ted companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresidents may be trans- ferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, w i th the same fac i l i t ies in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to ap- proval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or by debiting their nonresi- dent accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is normally not granted. However, under a special scheme, jewelry manufacturers are allowed to import gold for the purpose of manufacturing jewelry for export. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 8. A managed floating exchange rate system was introduced for the rupee, formerly pegged to the U .S. dollar which continued to be the intervention currency. The rupee exchange rate against the U .S. dollar was to be fixed daily by the State Bank of Pakistan (FE circular No. 1/82). On January 10, 1982, the first working day after the new arrangements were in- troduced, the State Bank buy ing rate, from authorized dealers, for the U.S. dollar was PRs 10.10 - US$1. (Between January 10 and December 31, 1982, the rupee-U.S. dollar rate was adjusted on 67 occasions.) January JO. Forward sales of foreign exchange were suspended except for foreign currency accounts wh ich continued to be provided at the rate at wh ich U .S. dollars were surrendered to the State Bank. Forward cover for imports under aid, loans, and credits provided by the State Bank for U .S. dollars were held in abeyance (FE Circular No. 2/82). April 22. Forward cover facility (for a period not exceeding six months) was extended for foreign currency repatriable loans by companies in Pakistan w i th State Bank approval. Forward selling rates for U .S. dollars and other major currencies were to be published on a daily basis by the Foreign Exchange Rates Committee (FE Circular No. 43/82). June 1. Forward exchange coverage was extended for imports (for a period up to six months) except for imports of petroleum and petroleum products, govern- ment imports, and sales of foreign exchange to overseas banks' branches and correspondents to cover rupee b i l ls negotiated by them under letters of credit established by authorized dealers in Pakistan. Forward cover was also extended to cover repatriation of Hajj notes collected by foreign correspondents in Saudi Arabia (FE Circular No. 60/82). Prescription of Currency March 19. A two-year commodity exchange agree- ment was entered into between Pakistan and Hungary. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions under the agreement chan- neled through a special U .S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for the exchange of goods of the value of US$35 million each way in 1982/83 compared with US$24 million in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 59/82). April 15. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was signed between Pakistan and the People's Repub l ic 364 of China. All paymen ts documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible U .S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for exchange of goods in 1982/83 of US$18 m i l l ion compared w i th US$20 million in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 69/82). April 19. A one-year banking and payments ar- rangement was initialed by Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special clearing account in U .S. dollars. (The agreement came into force on May 2, 1982.) Imports and Import Payments January 6. It was announced tha t, for the purpose of margin deposits in connection w i th the opening of letters of credit, the term "engineering goods" was intended to include agricultural implements (BCD Circular No. I/ 82). January JO. Forward sales of foreign exchange were suspended except for foreign currency accounts, which continued to be provided at the rate at wh ich U .S. dollars were surrendered to the State Bank. Forward cover for imports under aid, loans, and credits provided by the State Bank for U .S. dollars were held in abeyance (FE Circular No. 2/82). January 26. M in imum margin requirements were w i thdrawn for opening letters of credit for the import of raw materials by the iron, steel, and shipbreaking industries (BCD Circular No. 3/82). February 14. The va l id i ty of the May 1980 commod- ity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the Peo- p le's Republic of China was extended un t il March 31, 1982 for opening of letters of credit and un t il June 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 17/82). March 13. The va l id i ty of the February 1980 com- modity exchange agreement between Pakistan and Hun- gary was extended un t il June 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 29/82). March 19. A two-year commodity exchange agree- ment was entered into between Pakistan and Hungary. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions under the agreement chan- neled through a special U .S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for the exchange of goods of the value of US$35 m i l l ion each way in 1982/83 compared w i th US$24 m i l l ion in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 59/82). March 31. The va l id i ty of the May 1981 commodity agreement between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. was extended to June 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE C ircu lar No. 36/82). April 15. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was signed between Pakistan and the People's Republic of Ch ina. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible U .S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for exchange of goods in 1982/83 of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution US$18 million compared w i th US$20 m i l l ion in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 69/82). April 27. The validity of the December 1980 commod- ity agreement between Pakistan and Poland was ex- tended to September 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il December 31, 1982 for completing shipment (FE Circular No.47-82). May 14. A one-year commodity exchange agreement (retroactive to January 1, 1982) was entered into be- tween Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. All payments docu- ments were to be drawn in U .S. dollars and all trans- actions under the agreement channeled through a special U.S. dollar clearing account (FE Circular No. 64/82). June 1. Forward foreign exchange coverage was extended for imports (for up to six months) except for imports of crude oil and petroleum and petroleum products, government imports, and sales of foreign exchange to overseas banks' branches and correspon- dents to cover rupee bills negotiated by them under letters of credit established by authorized dealers in Pakistan (FE Circular No. 60/82). June 14. The validity of the September 1980 commod- ity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea was extended to September 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and until December 31, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 67/82). June 29. M in imum margin requirements were with- drawn for opening letters of credit for the importation of motorcycles (completely knocked-down condition) (BCD Circular No. 19/82). July 1. A total of 91 new items, including cotton yarn, were added to Part A of the free list. Caustic soda and soda ash were moved from Part C (items importable by public sector agencies only) to Part A of the free list. In addition, 18 items were moved from the tied list to the free list. The ceiling for permitted imports by commer- cial importers was increased from PRs 0 .1 million to PRs 0.25 million, and the limit for imports by specific new units from PRs 10 million to PRs 15 m i l l ion. Licensing restrictions were removed on 6 of the 28 permitted consumer goods items previously subject to ceilings. For the remaining 22 items, limits were set at 125 percent of the preceding year's l im i t, but the additional 25 percent was to be available only to new importers. Licensing restrictions were also removed on jute goods. Under the "deletion program," imports of certain inputs used in the assembly of refrigerators, air conditioners, televisions, motorcycles, and motor scoot- ers, which previously could be imported by registered assemblers at concessional rates of du ty, could hence- forth be imported only on the free list at the normal rates of du ty. July 1. The 1982/83 budget included the fo l low ing measures: (i) customs duties were lowered on 11 items and raised on 13 items; the latter included an increase in the duty on cement from 20 percent to 25 percent, and (ii) an across-the-board import surcharge of 5 percent was levied on all imports except accompanied baggage PAKISTAN and parcel post. The tar iff for new ly l ibera l ized items (cotton yarn, caustic soda, and soda ash) was set at 85 percent .6 July 10. It was clarified tha t, for the purpose of margin deposits in connection w i th letters of credit, the term "motorcycles" was intended to inc lude "motor scooters." It was fur ther clarified that the exemption from letter of credit margins for motorcycles or motor scooters in completely knocked-down condition would be available to those firms which had been given sanction by the Ministry of Commerce for progressive manufacture under the deletion program (BCD Circular No. 23/82). July 29. Limits for imports of books of a learned and technical nature were raised from PRs 1,600 to PRs 5,000 a year for individuals and from PRs 3,000 to PRs 6,000 a year for professionals and specialized organizations (FE Circular No. 92/82). August 4. The va l id i ty of the June 1981 commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China was extended to December 31, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 93/82). August 29. It was decided that the exemption from the m in imum letter of credit margin would also be available on the import of auto-rickshaws and three-wheelers (completely knocked-down condition) to those firms which had been given sanction for progressive manu- facture under the deletion program (BCD Circular No. 32/82). September 4. The validity of the December 1980 commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and Poland was extended to December 3 1 , 1 9 82 for opening letters of credit and un t il March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 106/82). September 19. It was announced that letters of credit opened for imports could henceforth be opened in any convertible foreign currency (FE Circular No. 112/82). December 4. The validity of the September 1980 barter agreement between Pakistan and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was extended up to Decem- ber 31, 1982 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 121/82). December 4. The validity of the December 1980 barter agreement between Pakistan and Poland was extended up to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and up to June 30, 1983 for completing shipments. (FE Circular No. 122/82). Payments for Invisibles January 10. Forward sales of foreign exchange were suspended except for foreign currency accounts, wh ich continued to be provided at the rate at wh ich U .S. dollars were surrendered to the State Bank. Forward cover for imports under aid, loans, and credits provided by the State Bank for U .S. dollars were "held in abeyance" (FE Circular No. 2/82). 6The t a r i ff on cotton ya rn was reduced to 50 percent on J anu a ry 10, 1983. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN January 12. Under the 1982/83 Hajj travel scheme, the number of pilgrims permitted to travel against Pakistan's own resources as well as under the sponsor- ship scheme was maintained at 25,000 for each annual scheme (FE Circular No. 3/82). June 1. Forward cover was extended to cover repatria- tion of Hajj notes collected by foreign correspondents in Saudi Arabia (FE Circular No. 60/82). June 16. The foreign exchange quota for private travel was increased from US$500 to US$1,000 a person a trip (FE Circular No. 70/82). June 23. A second category of business travel abroad was established under which applications were to be supported by a certificate from a Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FE Circular No. 74/82). July 4. Foreign exchange allowances for studies abroad were increased by about 10 percent (FE Circular No. 78/82). July 29. Limits for imports of books of a learned and technical nature were raised from PRs 1,600 to PRs 5,000 a year for individuals and from PRs 3,000 to PRs 6,000 a year for professionals and specialized organizations (FE Circular No. 92/82). September 7. The qua l i fy ing limit for general permis- sion for travel abroad of exporters of services was reduced from PRs 2.5 million to PRs 0.25 million (FE Circular No. 107/82). Exports and Export Proceeds January 26. Domestically produced engineering goods supplied locally against international tender were made eligible both for the export rebate scheme and for the concessional export finance scheme (BCD Circular No. 4/82). February 14. The validity of the May 1980 commod- ity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the Peo- ple's Republic of China was extended un t il March 31, 1982 for opening of letters of credit and until June 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 17/82). March 9. Export rebates for hand-knotted carpets and rugs, originally announced to apply to exports shipped after January 1, 1981 for which proceeds were received and repatriated after October 30, 1981, were made to apply retroactively for shipments after January 1, 1981 in respect of which proceeds were realized and repa- triated to Pakistan after June 25, 1981 (FE Circular Nos. 26/82 and 30/82). March 13. The validity of the February 1980 com- modity exchange agreement between Pakistan and Hun- gary was extended un t il June 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and until September 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 29/82). March 19. A two-year commodity exchange agree- ment was concluded between Pakistan and Hungary. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions under the agreement channeled through a special U.S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for the exchange of goods of the 366 value of US$35 million each way in 1982/83 compared w i th US$24 m i l l ion in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 59/82). March 28. The two monitoring periods (Ju ly 1980 to October 1980 and November 1980 to June 1981) for exporters of carpets and rugs under the export finance scheme were combined (BCD Circular No. 9/82). March 31. The va l id i ty of the May 1981 commodity agreement between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. was extended to June 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il September 30, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 36/82). April 15. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was signed between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China. All payments documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible U .S. dollar clearing account. The agreement provided for exchange of goods in 1982/83 of US$18 m i l l ion compared w i th US$20 million in 1981/82 (FE Circular No. 69/82). April 27. The va l id i ty of the December 1980 commod- ity agreement between Pakistan and Poland was ex- tended to September 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il December 31, 1982 for completing shipment (FE Circular No. 47/82). May 14. A one-year commodity exchange agreement (effective retroactively from January 1, 1982) was concluded between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. All payments documents were to be drawn in U .S. dollars and all transactions under the agreement channeled through a special U .S. dollar clearing account (FE Circular No. 64/82). June 14. The va l id i ty of the September 1980 commod- ity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea was extended to September 30, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il December 31, 1982 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 67/82). July 20. The 1982/83 Export Trade Control Order came into effect, removing chemical fertilizer from Schedule 1 (banned exports) to Schedule II (com- modities that can be exported by the public sector) and sh if t ing sugar from Schedule I to the category of items wh ich could be freely exported by the private sector. August 4. The va l id i ty of the June 1981 commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China was extended to December 31, 1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 93/82). August 4. Repayments of financial assistance in respect of carpets, rugs, and leather products under the export finance scheme were extended to 270 days for 1982/83 exports, provided that shipments were made during 1982/83 w i th in a period of 180 days after drawing financial assistance under the scheme. It was also announced that all of 1982/83 was to constitute a single monitoring period for the realization of export proceeds instead of two monitoring periods (BCD Circular No. 27/82). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 4. The validity of the December 1980 commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and Poland was extended to December 31 ,1982 for opening letters of credit and un t il March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 106/82). September 7. The qua l ify ing limit for general permis- sion for travel abroad of exporters of services was reduced from PRs 2.5 million to PRs 0.25 million (FE Circular No. 107/82). September 27. It was decided that for monitoring realization of export proceeds and imposition of penalty under the export finance scheme, the rupee equivalent of foreign currency realized would be taken into account. When, however, a shortfall in the realization of export proceeds was due to an appreciation of the rupee against the foreign currency in which the bill of exchange was drawn, no penalty would be charged (BCD Circular No. 35/82). November 22. It was announced that as from the monitoring period commencing on July 1, 1982, the date of shipment rather than the date of actual realization of export proceeds would be used for monitoring export performance and borrowing entitlement under the export finance scheme (BCD Circular No. 35/82). November 27. It was announced that export finance would be provided by banks under Part I of the export finance scheme when either an irrevocable letter of credit (whether confirmed or not) or a firm export order had been received. (Previously, irrevocable letters of credit PAKISTAN had to be "confirmed" as an eligibility condition (BCD Circular No. 41/82).) December 4. The validity of the September 1980 barter agreement between Pakistan and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was extended up to Decem- ber 31, 1982 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 121/82). December 4. The validity of the December, 1980 barter agreement between Pakistan and Poland was extended up to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and up to June 30, 1983 for completing shipments (FE Circular No. 122/82). Capital January 10. Forward sales of foreign exchange were suspended except for foreign currency accounts which continued to be provided at the rate at which U.S. dollars were surrendered to the State Bank. Forward cover for imports under aid, loans, and credits provided by the State Bank for U .S. dollars were held in abeyance (FE Circular No. 2/82). April 22. Forward cover facility (for a period not exceeding six months) was extended for foreign currency repatriable loans by companies in Pakistan with State Bank approval. Forward selling rates for U.S. dollars and other major currencies were to be published daily by the Foreign Exchange Rates Committee (FE Circular No. 43/82). 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U .S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by balboa coin and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946 Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic produc- tion; some of these are not being licensed. Imports of footwear are prohibited. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods tuffs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import du ty, a tax of 7.5 percent of the f .o .b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical prod- ucts and foods tuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 percent calculated on the sum of the c .i .f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fue ls, lubr ican ts, and related products, as well as foodstuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manu- factured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, p la t inum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of certain food- s tu f f s, firearms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for tax credit certifi- cates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Several foreign-controlled banks are authorized to con- duct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins w i th face values of B 100 and B 500, wh ich are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form w i th residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the M in is try of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U .S. coins, wh ich are exempt) to a du ty of 0.5 percent. Changes during 1982 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Gu inea is the Papua New Guinea K ina. The exchange rate of the k ina in terms of the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its re la t ionsh ip to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Gu inea 's major trading partners. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were US$1.3379 and US$1.3363, respectively, per K 1. For transactions with the pub l ic, outer l im i ts are set on buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar and the Australian dollar. On December 31, 1982 the rates for the pub l ic posted by the authorized dealers were US$1 .3411 buy ing and US$1.3331 selling, per K 1, and $A 1.3676 buy ing and $A 1.3596 selling, per K 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Max imum spreads of 2 percent between buy ing and selling rates are prescribed for other currencies. Papua New Guinea forma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea adm in is ters exchange control according to the Central Bank ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations issued in January 1982. Overall policy is determined by the Government w i th the advice of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea and the Department of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Gu inea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Gu inea, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign A f fa i rs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments, wh ich are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea must be met by paymen ts in foreign c u r r e n c y .' Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in k ina from an overseas bank 's account in Papua New Gu inea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such ac- counts may be w i thd rawn w i thout fu r ther f o rm a l i t y. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denom ina ted in a foreign currency. 1 Foreign currencies are de f ined as a ll cu r renc ies o ther th an the k i n a. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a l im i t ed number of goods are restricted for hea l th, security, and protective reasons. Imports of frozen pou l t ry, f lou r, and stock feed are subject to quotas for reasons of domestic protection; quotas are adjusted quar ter ly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. There are no import l icens ing requ iremen ts. Author- ized dealers have powers to approve most transactions w i thout referring to the Bank of Papua New Gu inea. Approval is given for payment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equip- ment. Import payments should be settled within 90 days of the arrival of the goods in the coun t ry. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for inv i s ib l e s, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance p rem iums on new policies wr i t ten after December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not permitted. Applications for foreign exchange for foreign travel in excess of the equ iva lent of K 400 an adu lt a year for tour ist travel and K 200 for each business trip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for con- s idera t ion. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Gu inea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for num i sm a t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas v is i tors are free to take out any currency wh ich they had brought in and recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Gu inea may export goods w i thout exchange control formality on condition that they comp ly w i th the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received w i t h in six mon ths of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Gu inea. When exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the conditions of the general au tho r i ty, they must app ly to the Bank for a specific au thor i ty. No au thor i ty is needed for certain categories of goods, in c lud ing sundry items such as passengers' personal effec ts. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Va lua- t i o n) Ac t. Special prov is ions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna f i sh, and wood ch ips ). Specified commod i t ies are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required on ly for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA dealer in Papua New Gu inea. Overseas v is i tors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expend i tu re. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are nor- ma l ly allowed; advance comm i tmen ts, however, are given only in exceptional c ircums tances. New inves t- ment outside Papua New Gu inea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain l im i t a t ion s. When an inves tment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is l im i ted to K 10,000 a person. Inves tment may on ly be in the form of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign secur i t ies by permanent res iden ts .2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Gu inea may repatriate the ir su rp lus earnings w i thout l im i t. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is required for all new or increased foreign inves tment in Papua New Gu inea. In most cases the Bank of Papua 2 Foreign securities are de f ined in the Cen t ral B a n k i ng Act as i n c l u d i ng deposits in overseas bank accoun ts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Gu inea. New Gu inea refers such app l ica t ions to the M in i s t ry of Finance. Foreign inv e s tm en ts other than those in bank- ing and insu rance are also subject to approval by the Na t ional Inve s tment and Development Au tho r i ty. In add i t ion to inves tment in the form of loans and equ i ty cap i ta l, approval from the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is also necessary for the acknow ledgment of indebtedness so that a r ight to receive a payment is conferred on a non res iden t. Offshore borrowing by private sector en t i t ies in Papua New Gu inea may not exceed the debt/ equ i ty ratio of 3 :1. Commercial banks may undertake offshore borrowing for on - lend ing to exporters, provided that no assump t ion of exchange risk is invo lved. Gold Under the Central Bank ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regu la t ion s, Chapter 138, approval by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. Changes during 1982 Capital September 1. Permission was granted for commercial banks to undertake offshore borrowings for on - lend ing to exporters, provided that no assump t ion of exchange risk wou ld be invo lved. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at (fa 160 = US$1. A small group of essential imports (primarily food, petroleum products, and capital goods) and specified invisible transactions of the pub l ic sector are eligible for foreign exchange settlement at the old official rate of (6 126 = US$1. One half of export proceeds must be surrendered at the rate of (fa 126 = US$1. A tax of 1.5 percent is levied on purchases and sales of exchange in the official market, except for transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Investment Law No. 5507 75. Purchases of foreign exchange from exporters are subject to a tax of 2 percent, and a fee of 2 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for imports. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. Additional selling rates arise from application of taxes of 8 percent on the c . i . f. value of a wide range of consumer goods imported from nonregional countries, 10 percent on outward remittances of profits and divi- dends, and 30 percent on outward remittances of interest, royalties, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. For interest payments on foreign loans con- tracted by national banks, this tax is applied only to the spread if floating rate loans are involved, and only to 6l/2 percent of interest on fixed-rate loans. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 percent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in the official market in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. The Central Bank charges the authorized banks a commission of 1 percent on its sales of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Authorized banks are not permitted to transfer foreign exchange from the official to the fluctuating market and are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, together with the Superintendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts wh ich the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned 'A rgen t ine pesos, Belgian francs, Braz i l ian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands gu i l- ders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. maintain with each other, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAI A. Clearing takes place every four months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authoriza- t ion .2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce. The Central Bank operates a register of importers, consisting of four categories of priority for import goods. All imports are subject to a m in imum financing term of 120 days and the retention of prior deposits of 100 percent of value for a m in imum of 120 days. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.3 Advance deposits are not required for pub l ic sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, cement, and printed matter from any source, imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, imports from other LAIA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List), and certain imports from nonneighboring countries, as specified in Central Bank Resolution No. 148/5. The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. An exchange tax (recargo de cambio) of 8 percent is levied on the c . i . f. value of goods covered by Decree Law No. 27018 when imported from nonregional coun- tries. Surcharges, calculated on the c . i . f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 percent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAIA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 percent to 30 percent, and for certain other goods from LAIA countries (mainly pharmaceuticals in a special list), the rate is 8 percent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 percent (10 percent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). There is an additional surcharge of 5 percent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The fo l low ing are the principal 2These include table wine in bu lk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or w i th any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions du r ing local harvest seasons. 3 These include certain textiles and continuous forms for use in cash registers and computers. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY imports exempted from the surcharge: whea t, cemen t, crude petroleum, equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, imports for the Government, imports for religious, char i tab le, c u l t u r a l, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplo- mats and certain international organizations. Agr icu l- tural and industrial machinery and equ ipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, agr icu l tural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Pro- gram, books and periodicals, and imports for invest- ments under Investment Law No. 550/75 are also exempted. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff surcharge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 percent to 24 percent (8 percent to 16 percent for certain goods subject to LAIA concessions) and the surcharge is levied on the c . i . f. va lue, calculated as the f .o .b. va lue p lus 10 percent for imports from neighboring countries and U ruguay, or the f .o .b. value p lus 20 percent for imports from other countries. Exempt from th is additional import du ty are pub l ic sector and diplomatic imports, raw materials and equ ipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes, imports under the Investment Law, and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax rang ing from 5 percent to 10 percent, and certain imports are subject to a 15 percent ad valorem levy. There is also a 1 percent tax on general imports and an import du ty at rates of 5, 8, and 12 percent for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods ( inc lud ing television sets and precious metals) may not be financed w i th foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of ma- chinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. For certain com- modities originating in Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, and Uruguay, and fa l l ing under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks at the official rate of exchange. As long as proof of payment of the preferential tariff rates for these imports can be presented, payment may be effected w i th the importer's own foreign exchange or by purchas ing foreign exchange at the f luc tua t ing market rate. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain delays arise from time to time as a result of the system of releasing foreign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Payments through the LAIA clearing system are made promp t ly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current inv is ib les are channeled through the f luc tua t ing market, w i th the exception of 372 government transactions, travel tickets for foreign tech- n ic ians employed by government agencies, and remitt- ances of pr inc ipal and interest on capital brought into the coun try and registered at the Central Bank under Invest- ment Law No. 550/75. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are ex- ports of rawhides and cement. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas, and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic indus tr ies. All other exports are free from l icens ing requ iremen ts, but some require a certificate issued by the Ins t i tu te of Technology and Standards, the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce, or the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and Stock Ra i s ing. The proceeds of exports must be collected w i t h in 180 days after completion of the bank ing formalities related to the sh ipp ing documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange; and at least 50 percent of the proceeds must be surrendered at the rate of (ft 126 = US$1. For all exports the Central Bank establishes m i n im um export prices denom ina ted in U .S. dollars. Export proceeds corre- sponding either to these prices or to the invoiced va lue, wh ichever is h igher, must be surrendered in the off ic ial exchange marke t; for coffee exports, however, the equ iva lent of 50 percent of the m i n im um export price may be retained and used to pay d iv idends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for machinery and equ ipment imported for the exporter's own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to author- ized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export va lues (aforos) pub l ished by the M in is try of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaran ies, rang ing from 1.5 percent to 7.5 percent of the f .o .b. va lue. There is a tax on exports of soybeans rang ing from approx ima te ly 3 percent for cooperatives to near ly 7 percent for other exporters; exports of expellers and soybean f lour are tax exempt. One group of exports is subject to an additional tax of 1.5 percent. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from inv is ib les may be retained or sold in the f luc tua t ing market. There are no surrender requ iremen ts for proceeds from inv is ib les. Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide foreign exchange at the official market rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for transfers of registered cap i ta l, subject to presentation of appropriate documen ta t ion. All other capital move- ments are channeled through the f lu c tu a t ing market w i th the prior approval of the Central Bank. Inves tment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in in s ta l l- ments of up to 20 percent from the th ird year af ter the beginning of production, in the currency or ig ina l ly imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the max imum amount of gold and foreign exchange that may be held by residents; th is requ irement does not apply to amoun ts held by the Central Bank or by ins t i tu t ions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and im- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry by nonbank residents and indus tr ial users require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users may be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating market rate. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement July 18. The f luc tua t ing exchange market was e l im i- nated, and a new rate of (fa 160 = US$1 was es tab l ished. Imports and Import Payments January I. Law No. 921 was promulgated, raising tariffs on (a) nonalcoholic carbonated beverages and alcoholic beverages of less than 2 percent alcohol from (fa 1 a liter to 15 percent ad valorem ( c . i . f . ), and (b) beer from (fa 14 a liter to 18 percent ad valorem. July 18. The following changes were made in ex i s t ing regulations: (a) access to the official exchange market at (fa 126 = US$1 was limited to a small group of essential PARAGUAY imports, p r ima r i ly food, petroleum products, and capital goods, and importation of all other goods was required to be financed at the new rate of (fa 160 = US$1; (b) all requests for foreign exchange were made- subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank; (c) it was announced that the Central Bank would establish a registry of importers, and establish four categories of priority for import goods; (d) a fee of 2 percent was introduced on all exchange sales for imports; and (e) imports were made subject to a m i n im um f inanc ing of 120 days. July 21. Importation of cigarettes was l im i ted to the port of Asunc ion. September 3. A system of prior deposits for imports was established, to be constituted at authorized banks, which were prohibited from u t i l iz ing their own funds to finance either such deposits or import payments; the deposits were made subject to a special bank reserve requ irement of 100 percent. A l ist of 1,305 import items (Group A) was exempted from the prior deposits. Group B consisted of 1,254 products subject to prior deposits of 100 percent of the guaranf value of the import (calculated at the rate of (fa 160 = US$1); while Group C covered 976 products subject to a prior deposit of 200 percent. The deposits were required to be retained for a m i n im um of 120 days. September 6. A ta r i ff of 30 percent was established on alcohol-fueled motor veh ic les. Payments for Invisibles July 18. It was announced that foreign exchange for servicing public external debt would be provided at a rate of (fa 126 = US$1; servicing of private external debt wou ld con t inue to take place at the (fa 160 = US$1 rate. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. Authorization was granted for exporters of meat and meat by-products to sell their foreign exchange proceeds in the free market, and for exporters of other commodities to convert 50 percent of foreign exchange proceeds in the same market, leaving the balance to be converted in the off ic ial market (Central Bank Resolu- tion 9/82). July 18. Export proceeds were required to be surren- dered at the rate of (fa 126 = US$1 for up to 50 percent, and (fa 160 = US$1 for the remaining 50 percent. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U .S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and is adjusted frequently on the basis of a set of indicators. Exchange market transactions may also be conducted in 14 other currencies. * All exchange transactions must be conducted through the banking system or recognized exchange dealers. V ir tua l ly all exchange transactions are conducted on the basis of two rates: the rate set daily by the Central Reserve Bank (CRB rate, with a commission of up to 0.5 percent on the selling side) and the rate for bank certificates of deposit (CD rate), which fluctuates freely in response to supply and demand. All government transactions are conducted at the CRB rate. Under existing contracts, the un if ied exchange market selling rate continues to be used for remittances of petroleum companies, while the CRB rate of the preceding business day is applied in the conver- sion process of unused and expired ten-day exchange certificates. Banks and dealers operating in the unified exchange market are required to limit the spread between their buy ing and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 percent. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were S/. 987.20 and S/. 992.14, respectively, per US$1. Banks and nonbank financial institutions may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents. In addition, banks may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these bank certificates must not be derived from export proceeds. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amounts not less than US$1,000 and have a maturity of not longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for making all permitted payments and transfers, including import payments. Transactions in foreign currency certificates usua l ly take place at a small premium over the official buying and selling rates; since February 1979, the rates for these certificates have remained generally within 1 percent of the official rates. Residents are free to hold abroad their foreign ex- change receipts other than those from exports. If repa- triated, such exchange may be sold to the bank ing system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign currency certificates of deposit. Export proceeds, inc lud ing loans for the pre- financing of exports, other than nontraditional exports 'Be lg ian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, pounds s ter l ing, and Swiss francs, together w i th U .S. dollars, are prescribed for ex ternal trade transactions. For nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. 374 benefiting from subsidized credit, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues convertible foreign exchange certificates equal to 15 percent of the value of such receipts. During their validity period of ten working days, these certificates can be converted by the exporter into soles, or foreign currency deposits, or certificates of deposit. The Central Reserve Bank issues ten-day exchange certificates for the remaining 85 percent. These ex- change certificates are held by the surrendering bank for use by the exporter for his own permitted foreign exchange payments and transfers or for conversion into soles at the CRB rate of the day. If not so utilized w i th in their ma tur i ty, the certificates are canceled, and the corresponding amount in soles is credited to the account of the bank at the buy ing rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day, m inus a discount of 2 percent. Exporters of nontraditional products availing them- selves of subsidized credit from the Fund for Nontradi- tional Exports (PENT) are eligible for 180-day nontrans- ferable exchange certificates (PENT certificates) against the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds of preship- ment and postshipment credits received from abroad, provided that such foreign credits do not exceed 72 percent of the contemplated export value. PENT certifi- cates remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank and bear interest at the LIBOR plus five percentage points for the duration of the foreign export financing; they are applied directly by the Central Reserve Bank for the cancellation of part of the PENT credit to the exporter in local currency. Upon surrender of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues a second set of exchange certificates for the direct cancellation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. For the remainder of the surrendered foreign exchange, the following procedure is followed: for up to 15 percent of the total export proceeds, freely disposable ten-day exchange certificates are issued to the exporter; for any remaining exchange surrendered, ten-day exchange cer- tificates are issued that are usable either for payments through the unified exchange market or for conversion into soles at the CRB exchange rate. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against re- ceipts from exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. The Import Supervision Commission is the ultimate adminstrative authority on applications for prior import licenses denied ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also exercises general surveillance over the flow of imports and the ir effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Com- mission. The latter commission exercises surveillance over customs valuation and has the authority to purchase and auction o f f, or to impose special duties on, those imports deemed to be undervalued or dumped. Public sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 require the approval of the Board for External Transactions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports valued at more than US$50,000 require, in addition, a resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector w i th a govern- ment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the Committee of the External Debt and the National Planning Ins t i tu te. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness w i th the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPC's approval for renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. More- over, with effect from January 1983, the enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Investment and Foreign Technology (CoNiTE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most payments for inv is ib les require the approval of either CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U .S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, U ruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions are limited to certain raw cotton products and arms, wh ich comprise only 7 out of more than 5,100 eight-digit items on the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NABAND INA ). Another set of items specified by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade is importable only subject to prior approval (observation) from the appropriate m in is try; they include items subject to public sector monopoly or deemed in need of protection or damaging to public welfare. All other items may be imported w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction but PERU importers must be listed in the National Register of Importers. However, imports valued at up to US$2,000 a year are free from licensing or registration requirements. An import license for imports from countries of the Andean Pact is not required nor is the listing of the importer in the National Register of Importers; the imports need only be registered w i th the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the production of nontradi- tional exports are exempted from import duties and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qual- ify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as wheat, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Indus- trial Marketing (£NC I ), and crude petroleum and petro- leum derivatives on ly by PETROPERU, a government agency. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevoca- ble documentary credits, and the intermediating bank must guarantee refund ing of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documen- tary credit expires. There are no m in imum financing requirements for imports, and advance payments are permitted except for capital goods imported by firms w i th an annual turnover in excess of S/. 10 billion. W i th specified exemptions, imported goods are sub- ject to a un i fo rm value-added tax of 16 percent of the c . i . f. va lue of imports (in addition to the import du ty ); exemptions from the value-added tax include agricultural products, certain minerals and fue ls, medicines, fertiliz- ers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors, aviation equipment and ships in excess of 1,000 tons, and items for personal use ( inc lud ing automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centimeters). In addition, a selective con- sumption tax (also in addition to the import du ty) is levied on luxu ry items, ranging from 10 percent to 40 percent of c . i . f. value. Under the 1980 customs tariff, as amended, the max imum import duty is 60 percent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate at the end of 1982 amounted to 31.5 percent.2 In addition, many imports are subject to one or both of the following taxes: (1) an additional import tax for the promotion of nontraditional exports of 1 percent of the c . i . f. value and (2) a maritime freight tax of 10 percent of the ocean freight charges. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported duty free. Public sector imports mus t, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for invisibles, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized free ly, provided genuine current payments are involved. 2 Inc lud ing the 15 percent surcharge introduced by the 1982 budget, the average rate stood at 36 percent at the end of 1982. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Remittance of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. In accordance with Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, limited to 20 percent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted for investments that generate employment, are in unde- veloped areas, or help to diversify exports.3 All pay- ments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its aff i l ia tes. The effective interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for payments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and human i tar ian pur- poses, for income, insurance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expenditures of agencies, branches, and offices of nonresident f irms. Interest payments by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The indicative annual limit on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$8,000 a person (US$500 a year for children under 12 years). For business travel the limit is US$400 a person a day up to US$12,000 a trip, plus representation expenses of US$500 a trip; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business trave l, there is a flat tax of US$35 payable in national currency. Remittances for studies abroad require the approval of the National Institute of Scholarships and Educational Loans (!NABEC) and are generally limited to US$3,000 a month for external students and US$600 a month for residential students or those on scholarships. Indicative limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian residents are limited to US$800 a month and the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank is re- quired. Foreigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 percent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obligations, but those who avail themselves of these provisions are required to waive all rights to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the above limits in justified cases. Nonresidents visiting Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$500 in foreign exchange on presentation of evidence that at least that amount in foreign exchange has been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. 3 Companies exporting at least 80 percent of th e ir produc t ion to countries outside the Andean Pact and m i n i ng companies are exemp t. 376 Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru is the principal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals produced by the public enterprises, while the Banco Minero has a monopoly over exports of gold. Among other exports, monopolies are held by PESCAPERU, over exports of fish meal and fish oil; PETROPERU, over exports of petroleum derivatives; and ENC I, over exports of cotton. These monopolies are a traditional arrange- men t, and the private sector is free to establish marketing links with foreign buyers of these products. Exports of commodities specified as such by the General Direc- torate of Foreign Trade are subject to prior license, and all export proceeds, as well as export prefinancing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within ten working days of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and w i th the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received w i th in 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional products are granted trans- ferable tax credit certificates (certiflcados de reintegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to a max imum of 22 percent of the c. & f. value (the f .o .b. value is used when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels). In addition, 10 percent is allowed for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area. Exports of local hand icraf ts recognized as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are eligible for CERTEX benefits at a rate of 30 percent. These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion administers an export credit guaran- tee program, and the Industrial Bank provides or arranges export f inance for nontraditional exports. To be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional exports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Nontraditional Products; each entry in the list is valid for two years. Most traditional exports are subject to a tax of up to 12 percent, wh ich is payable in soles, but when the international price is below a specified level, exports of copper from the m ineral deposits of Cuajone or by small and med ium- sized m in ing enterprises are exempt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be held abroad or sold to the bank ing system or deposited in authorized foreign exchange accounts w i th in ten working days of receipt. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For trans- fers derived from foreign direct investment the approval of CONITE is required, wh i le for most other transfers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. Min- imum maturities and grace periods for different cate- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established. Furthermore, annual global limits are established on the contracting of new public or pub l ic ly guaranteed external debt (w i th certain exceptions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. In cases where proceeds of foreign loans have been used to purchase foreign currency bank certificates of deposit or to make deposits directly to foreign currency accounts, amortization pay- ments on such loans are not eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Banks may receive funds originating abroad in the form of drafts, checks, bank transfers, foreign currency traveler's checks, or foreign notes and coin for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue foreign exchange certificates of deposit against such fund s. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor. Under an exchange amnesty, residents may repatriate foreign assets w i thout specifying the origin of such funds and without facing penalties for hav ing violated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. In compliance w i th the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects consid- ered essential for the coun try's development. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru as of Ju ly 1, 1971 wishes to benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to have agreed by June 30, 1974 to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company so as to transform it into a mixed or national company during a max imum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of th is regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, wh i le national companies are those in which at least 80 percent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 percent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 percent after 10 years and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 15-year period. For foreign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 percent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in m in ing activities ( inc lud ing petro- leum production) and in firms that export at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the require- ment of gradual transformation into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the du ty- free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign PERU enterprises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than three years or in amounts greater than their capital and reserves. Investment in the m in ing sector is governed by the General M in ing Law. Companies holding mining con- cessions may enter into m in ing contracts w i th the Government providing for special incentives and guaran- tees or may constitute mixed enterprises with govern- ment participation of at least 25 percent. The Govern- ment may grant to m in ing concessionaries (initiating large-scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange for transfers for (1) recovery of investment, (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the f inanc ial market from wh ich the loans originate, (3) payments for jus t i f ied services, and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together w i th guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed m in ing enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold Export of gold in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by indus tr ial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINPECO is authorized to make the initial purchase of new ly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered w i th the customs (S/. 15,000 when visiting neighboring countries). Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements April 30. The proportion of freely disposable ten-day exchange certificates issued against the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds from exports or their pre- f inanc ing was raised from 10 percent to 15 percent of surrendered foreign exchange from traditional exports or from nontraditional exports not financed under the subsidized credit fac i l i ty of the Fund for Nontraditional Exports (PENT). For the remaining 85 percent of such surrenders, ten-day exchange certificates were issued that were usable during their va l id i ty period for pay- ments abroad through the unified exchange market or for conversion into soles at the Central Reserve Bank's exchange rate for the same day, as compared with the previous use of the buy ing rate in the unified exchange market on the preceding business day. Exporters of nontraditional products availing themselves of the sub- sidized PENT credit facilities would henceforth receive 90-day nontransferable exchange certificates (PENT certificates) against the surrender of the foreign ex- 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU change proceeds of their preshipment and postshipment credits received from abroad. The PENT certificates, which should remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank, were made eligible for interest at the LIBOR plus five percentage points for the duration of the foreign financing received by the exporter. Upon surren- der of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank would issue a second set of exchange certificates for the direct cancellation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. For the remainder of the foreign exchange surrendered, the following procedure would be followed: for up to 15 percent of the total export proceeds, freely disposable ten-day exchange certificates would be issued to the exporter; for any remaining exchange surrendered, ten-day exchange certificates would be issued that could either be used for payments through the un if ied exchange market or for conversion into soles at the Central Reserve Bank's exchange rate for the day (Exchange Resolution No. 002-82-EFC/90; and Exchange Resolu- tion No. 003-82-EFC/90). May 21. It was announced that all transactions of the Government would henceforth be conducted at the Central Reserve Bank's exchange rate (buy ing = sell- ing); hitherto, the preceding business day's buy ing and selling rates in the un if ied exchange market had been used for such transactions. July 1. A regulation was introduced, specifying that to be eligible for PENT credits, foreign preshipment and postshipment financing for nontraditional exports should not exceed 72 percent of the contemplated export va lue. Other changes were made in FENT-related regulations, as follows: (a) the maximum validity period for PENT certificates was raised from 90 days to 180 days; (b) the max imum period for extension of the validity period was extended from 90 days to 180 days; and (c) special regulations were introduced for cases of receipt of export proceeds before the repayment date of foreign f inanc ing repayable (Exchange Resolution No. 003-82-EFC/90). Administration of Control September 8. Public sector enterprises were required to register their short-term external indebtedness w i th the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPC's approval for the renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. Beginning in 1983, such enterprises should submit their annual short-term debt- contracting programs to GDPC for approval (Supreme Decree No. 265-82-EFC). December 3. Supreme Decree No. 265-82-EFC (9/8/82) was superseded, and in a modification of the procedures for approval of short-term foreign borrowing by pub l ic enterprises, it was announced that short-term foreign borrowing wou ld be allowed only to provide for temporary work ing capital needs; the General Direc- torate of Pub l ic Credit could change this guideline in ju s t i f iab le cases (Supreme Decree No. 842-82-EFC). Prescription of Currency February I. It was announced that all transactions w i th Poland wou ld henceforth be settled in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments April 2 7. A number of iron and steel products were brought under prior import licensing (Ministerial Resolu- tion No. 79-82-EFC). October 17. Nuc lear reactors, components, and acces- sories, as well as several nuclear raw materials, were made subject to prior import licensing (Ministerial Resolution No. 609-82-EFC/70). October 30. The Department of Madre de Dios was granted a special customs treatment un t il end-1990, in the form of a preferential import regime for items of pure ly local use (Law No. 23.498). November 16. A number of agr icu l tural inputs were exempt from import tar iffs (Supreme Decree No. 319- 82-EFC). November 18. Several iron and steel products were brought under prior import licensing (Ministerial Resolu- tion No. 708-82-EFC/16). Exports and Export Proceeds April 27. New regulations for coffee exports came into effec t, under wh ich the Na t ional Coffee Board was en- trusted w i th the d is tr ibu t ion of export quotas. May 14. It was announced that in order to be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional exports, exporters had to be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Non trad i t ional Products, entry in the list wou ld be va l id for two years in each case (Supreme Decree No. 137-82-EFC). November 11. Export incentives under Article 16 of Decree-Law No. 22342 were extended to cover local sales of indus tr ial inpu ts and raw materials for use in the production of non trad i t ional manufactured exports (Su- preme Decree No. 313-82-EFC). 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and ex- change rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and other policy objectives in the medium term. The Bank- ers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1982 this rate was P 9.171 per US$1. The buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Philippines for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency and the sole currency quoted, on the same date were P 9.1251 and P 9.2398, respectively, per US$1. In spot transactions of less than US$100,000 with their custom- ers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The minimum and maximum spot buy ing rates are 0.50 percent and 1 percent, respectively, below the guiding rate. The m in imum and maximum spot selling rates are 0.75 percent and 1.25 percent, respectively, above the guiding rate. For trans- actions in excess of US$100,000, the margins are determined competitively. The Central Bank is not governed by the Association's trading rules in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX), where the Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investments in the Philippines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). In addition to other banks, the thrift banks and the rural banks are authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange; subject to certain conditions, they may purchase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents, for conversion into pesos. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Authorized agent banks and foreign exchange dealers are authorized to accept notes 'Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. denominated in Saudi Arabian riyals, Kuwaiti dinars, and Bahrain dinars for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether individual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign ex- change or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdraw- als from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evi- dence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and nonresi- dents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are prohibited, mostly on grounds of health, national welfare, and security. Im- ports of certain commodities require prior approval by specified government agencies or committees, mainly for protective purposes. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of commodities that are classified under two categories of consumer goods—unclassified (UC) and nonessential (NEC) are subject to prior approval of the Central Bank; the opening of letters of credit for such imports must be reported to the Central Bank within 24 hours. Payments for imports of certain other com- modities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Any importation of plant, machinery, equipment, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with maturity periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or w i th in 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importation by any single importer of nonagricultural machinery and equipment with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 within a calendar month, with the exception of certified export-oriented firms and other importers who have obtained prescribed certification from the BOI. Trade w i th any of the state-trading countries, exclud- ing Yugoslavia, must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is confined ma in ly to f irms w i th a h is tory of importing under these arrangements prior to February 2 1, 1970; to producer firms established after that date and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI and the Export Processing Zone Authority, or are franchised u t i l i ty concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$1,000 (US$500 for publications) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment and are subject to the release certificate requirement. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not invo lv ing payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt from the require- ment of opening letters of credit. The reserve require- ment on marginal deposit on all import letters of credit opened on or after Ju ly 1, 1982 is 50 percent. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commit- ments. A firm thus watch listed may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks require 50 percent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared w i th 25 percent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports into border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain l im i ts established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents of residents while abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and for f i lm and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange allow- ance for business travel abroad depends upon the foreign exchange earning of the individual business, the rank of the traveler, and the destination. For registered exporters with foreign exchange earnings in excess of US$250,000 a year, the allowance is US$250 a day plus US$500 for representation expenses in respect of travel to Afr ica, North America, South America, Australia, New Zea- land, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the Middle East, and US$120 a day plus US$300 for representation expenses for travel to other countries. Senior officials of firms 380 earning foreign exchange of less than US$250,000 a year are en t i t led to US$200 a day, p lus US$500 for represen- tation expenses, for travel to the enumerated areas and US$140 a day, p lus US$300 for representation expenses, to other areas. Senior o f f ic ia ls of f irms not earning foreign exchange are entitled to US$140 a day for travel to the enumerated areas, p lus US$300 for representation expenses, and US$50 a day, p lus US$300 in representa- tion expenses, to all other areas. All these daily allowances may be purchased for up to 20 days a trip for travel to the enumerated areas and up to 15 days for travel to all other areas; applications for travel abroad for a f i f th or subsequent t ime w i th in one calendar year are subject to careful review by the agent banks to prevent abuse. For nonbus iness travel to Afr ica, the United States, South America, Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand the allocation for each adu lt resident is l im i ted to US$2,000 a year and to US$1,200 a year for such travel to all other countries. Travelers under 12 years of age are eligible for half of the standard allowance. A foreign tourist holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equ iva lent of US$1,000, beyond wh ich approval must be obtained from the Central Bank. The fo l low ing l im i ts apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students undertaking degree courses at du ly accredited colleges or universities: for studies in the Un i ted States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tu i t ion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a mon th. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. The l im i ts on remittances to dependents of residents are as fo l lows: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent l iv ing in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, or New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The maintenance allowances for depen- dents are allowed only for close relatives under condi- tions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized since January 1, 1973 are permitted in f u l l, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic borrowings. Profits earned and dividends declared before January 1, 1973 (wh ich had been unremittable for some time) may be remitted provided that such remittances are not financed with domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copy- rights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered w i th the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 percent of the wholesale price of the commodity that is manufactured locally under the royalty contract (2 percent in the case of marketing service contracts), and that contracts do not exceed five- year terms and do not inc lude restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the producer's share of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution television f i lms are freely permitted, provided genera l ly that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from f i lm s. Foreign exchange w i th in the above l im i ts may be purchased from authorized agent banks, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, for current paymen ts for invisibles adm in is tra t ive ly w i thhe ld prior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain inv is ib les for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Ph i l ipp ines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take ou t, as part of their travel a l lowance, up to US$100 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had p rev ious ly brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers requ i re prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Ph i l ipp ines, when trave l ing abroad, mu st pay a travel tax of £ 1,350 for first-class sh ip or a irp lane tickets or P 810 for any other t icke t. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Ph i l ipp ine na t iona ls making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for indus tr ia l iza t ion and economic deve lopment are also prohibited? Otherwise, exports are genera l ly not re- stricted, but are regulated to ensure that the fore ign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Au thor ized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export pe rm i ts for gold, wh ich are issued by the Central B ank ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut o i l, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for reg is tra t ion only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar- based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade. As a general ru le, no commod i ty may be exported un less it is covered by a draft d rawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and un le ss collec- tion of the proceeds w i ll be under taken by an au tho r ized agent bank; however, payment by means of te legraph ic transfer, check, or ma il transfer may be a l lowed. Payments for exports on a cash, co l lec t ion, or cons ign- ment basis must be arranged th rough an au thor ized agent bank, wh ich must spec i f ica l ly contract w i th the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No sh ipment of exports w i ll be allowed by the cus toms un less a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds mu st be received in a prescribed currency w i t h in 60 days from the date of shipment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i t h in 3 PHILIPPINES bus iness days of receipt. The und rawn balances of exports invo lv ing in i t i al draw ings of less than 100 percent of the f . o . b. invoice va lue mu st be collected and repatriated w i t h in 150 days from the date of sh ipment for exports to Europe, A f r ica, and Latin America, and 120 days from date of sh ipment for exports to other coun- tries. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap me ta ls, copra, and coconut o i l, and for all exports to G u am, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Jaf>an. Exports of per ishab le commodities to Hong Kong re- qu i re p repaymen t. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented indus t r ies are a l lowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central B ank, to use a part of the ir export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of mach ine ry, raw ma te r ia ls, and other requ iremen ts. An export tax is levied on the f . o . b. va lue of certain major exports. The rate is 6 percent for cen t r i fugal sugar; 4 percent for gold, s i lve r, iron ore and concentrates, chrom i te ore and concentrates, unmanu fac tu red abaca, molasses, canned pineapples, bunker fuel o i l, cement c l ink e r, portland cemen t, petroleum p i tch and residues, and lumb er and veneer; and 2 percent for bananas. However, the export taxes on mineral products and cement are suspended. Certain traditional export com- modities are subject to p rem ium export du t ies; those on m ineral products and cement are suspended. The Ph i l ipp ine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade w i th state-trading coun t r ies, ex c lud ing Yugos lav ia, is handled th rough the P h i l i p p i ne In te rna t ional Trading Corporation. There are separate regu la t ions for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts from inv i s ib l es mu st be sold w i t h in three bus iness days to an authorized agent bank. Ph i l ipp ine construction companies registered w i th the Ph i l ipp ine Overseas Cons truc t ion Board and hav ing overseas proj- ects may re ta in abroad, on a noncumu la t ive bas is, specified portions of the ir net foreign exchange receipts to meet th e ir operational foreign exchange requ iremen ts for the succeed ing ca lendar quar ter. Ph i l ipp ine na t iona ls emp loyed abroad are perm i t ted to open U . S. do l lar deposit accounts w i th au thor ized agent bank s, in wh i ch they may re ta in any U . S. dollars they rem it to the P h i l i p p i n e s. To be e l ig ib le for credit to such accoun ts, ea rn ings must be transferred through Ph i l ipp ine diplo- ma t ic e s t ab l i shm en t s. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inwa rd rem i t tances of foreign currencies by residents or non res iden ts for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender require- men t s, provided that the rem i t tances represent neither current ea rn ings or income of residents nor paymen ts by nonres iden ts pu r su ant to con trac tual ob l iga t ions. Bal- ances in such accounts are free ly transferab le abroad. Ph i l ipp ine na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad are required to repatriate specified m i n im um shares of the ir foreign ea rn ings, rang ing from 30 percent to 70 percent. Travel- 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES ers may freely br ing in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange d rawn in pesos, of wh ich not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. Peso-denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Ph i l ipp ines are exempt from these requirements. Capital V i r tua l ly all payments and transfers to South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. All inward and outward cap i tal move- ments, w i th the exception of certain bank ing operations and certain transactions related to f inanc ing of interna- tional trade (see be low ), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central B ank. When app l ica- tions for new inward foreign inves tmen ts (in k ind or in cash), as we ll as new foreign borrowings are rev iewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BO1, to export-oriented indus tr ies, and to other (nonexport- oriented) industries not u t i l i z i ng domestic credit re- sources. The law guarantees f u ll repa tr ia t ion of cash inves tmen ts made af ter March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been cer t if ied by the Cen tral Bank, in enterprises registered w i th the BO I, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Man i la and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a m i n i m u m, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become e l ig ib le for repa tr ia t ion. Foreign companies are e l ig ib le to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a deb t -equ i ty ratio of 60:40 in h igh -p r io r i ty sectors, 55:45 in m ed ium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-pr ior i ty sectors. Foreign direct cash inves tmen ts made after March 15, 1973 and registered w i th the Central Bank are free ly repatriable, except for inves tmen ts in domestic commer- cial banks, wh i c h, if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) be low. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash inves tmen ts made before March 16, 1973 and noncash inve s tmen ts made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of indus try where the inves tment is made, as fo l lows: (1) investments in export-oriented indus tr ies certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in f u l l, but no annu al ins ta l lment may exceed the app l ican t 's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the f i rm in the preceding year; (2) inves tmen ts in enterprises registered w i th the BOI, producing import subs t i tu tes or exports, are repa- triable in three equal annual in s ta l lmen ts starting one year after the l iqu ida t ion of the inves tmen t, but no annual ins ta l lment may exceed the total net fore ign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) inves tmen ts in enterprises registered w i th the BOI (not inc luded in (2) above and not u t i l i z i ng domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual in s ta l lmen ts starting one year after the l iqu ida t ion of the investment; and (4) for investments in the rema in ing indus tr ies, repatriation is allowed according to the fo l low ing schedule: for 382 amoun ts of US$0.25 m i l l i on or less, f ive equal annual in s t a l lm en ts af ter l iqu id a t ion; for amoun ts of US$0.25- 0 .5 m i l l i o n, seven equal an nu al in s t a l lm en ts after liq- u id a t ion; and for amoun ts of over US$0.5 m i l l i o n, n ine equal annual in s ta l lmen ts after l iqu ida t ion. Approval and reg is tra t ion by the Central Bank are required for the assigned cap i tal of branches of foreign banks to be e l ig ib le for prof it remittances and capital repatriation. Du r ing the period between the date of the inves tment and repa t r ia t ion, l i q u i d a t i on proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented indus t r ies registered w i th the BOI or certified by the Central B ank. W i thout pr ior central bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit a r is ing from normal in te rna t ional trade transac- t ions. They may, however, accept deposits in n ine scheduled currenc ies2 from nonresidents of foreign n a t ion a l i ty; such deposits are freely repatriable at the p r ev a i l ing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent w i t h h o l d i ng t ax. Twen ty - f ive domestic commer- c ial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these fore ign currency deposit u n it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in te rna t ional money marke ts for domestic on - lend ing. Nonbank residents may ob ta in supp l ie rs' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are w i t h in the l im i ts prescribed by the Central B ank. Ma tu r i t ies of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as fo l lows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, f ive years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 m i l l i o n, seven years; and (4) over US$3 m i l l i o n, e ight to ten years. Firms whose products are c lea r ly destined for export, as we ll as f i rms ea rn ing foreign exchange and d u ly cer t if ied as belonging to other p r io r i ty areas (food, energy, in f ras t ruc tu re, transpor t, and commun i c a t ion) w i th appropriate govern- ment agenc ies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 m i l l i on w i th a m i n im um repayment period of seven to e ight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 percent above the pr ime rate of the lend ing coun try. App l ica t ions are not approved if the proposed project expands capac i ty in an indu s t ry deemed to be over- crowded or for f i rms that are in arrears w i th government f in an c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s. Any prospective borrowing equ iv- a lent to US$3 m i l l i on or more must be subm i t ted for inc lu s ion in the Central B ank 's programm ing of external credit resources. Sales of foreign exchange for amortiza- tion of loans are perm i t ted in accordance w i th the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same app l ies for loan contracts registered w i th the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not f a l l i ng under these two categories, prior approval by the 2C a n a d i an do l l a r s, deu tsche m a r k, French francs, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y e n, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, pounds s t e r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U . S. do l la rs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may t rans fer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central B ank. The r em a in ing l i q u id assets may be w i thd r awn in f ive years b e g i n n i ng one year from emigration. Outward investment by resident persons, f i rm s, or corporations requires prior approval of the Central Bank through the Management of Ex ternal Debt and Inve s t- ment Accounts Department. Except as o therw ise specif- ically authorized, resident persons, f i rm s, or corpora- tions may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or invo lv ing any assets be long ing to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or de l ive rab le abroad. Th is restriction also applies to contracts or t ransac t ions involving assets w i t h in the Ph i l ipp ines belonging to a nonresident person, f i rm, or corporation, and to the ir export or import. Detailed regu la t ions are in force concerning transac t ions in secur i t ies between res iden ts and nonresidents. Twenty-five foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore bank ing un i ts in the Ph i l ipp ine s. These un i ts may engage in a w ide range of fo re ign cu r rency transactions w i th nonres iden ts and w i th other offshore u n i t s. Offshore b ank ing u n i ts may open and m a i n t a in deposit accounts in pesos w i th domestic agent banks exclusively to meet adm in is t ra t ive and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Filipinos the equ iv a l ent of fore ign exchange remittances channe led through the offshore b a n k i ng u n i t s' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore b a n k i ng un i ts may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. All investors in enterprises registered w i th the BOI are guaranteed the r ight to repatriate the ir inves tmen ts and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay- ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requ is i- tion. There are d ifferent arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred inves tmen ts"; the fo rmer are granted certain incen t ives over and above those g iven to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of inves tmen t ," and at least 60 percent of the ou t s tand ing voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "pre- ferred areas of inves tmen t" mu st be owned by P h i l i p p i ne nationals. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises where investment by non-F i l ip inos exceeds 30 percent and wh ich are not covered by the Inves tment Incen t ives Act of 1967 mu st ob ta in prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic ac t iv i ty in the Ph i l ipp ines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign na t iona ls would reduce Philippine ownership in a f i rm to less than 70 percent, permission from the BOI mu st f irst be obtained. PHILIPPINES Gold Producers of gold may be e l ig ib le for assistance under the Gold I n d u s t ry Ass is tance Ac t, irrespective of wh e th er th is gold is a by-product or the p r inc ipal or on ly product of t h e ir opera t ions. The Cen t ral B ank purchases the en t i re ou tput of the 14 domes t ic p r im a ry gold producers. The producers are paid in Ph i l ipp ine pesos based on the latest London f i x i ng price and the p reva i l ing Ph i l ipp ine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of o f f ic ial in t e rn a t ion al reserves. Sma ll gold panners are ex empt from the scheme. Res iden ts other t h an the mone ta ry au tho r i t i e s, au tho r ized gold dealers, and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form o ther than jewe l ry. Va r ious denom ina t ions of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Ph i l ipp ines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin (1970), a 1,000-Pi so Ang Bagong L i p u n an coin (1975 ), a 1,500-Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976 ), the 1,500-Piso Ang Bagong L ipun an coins (1977 and 1978), a 5,000-Piso Ang Bangong L ipunan coin ( 1 9 7 7 ), a 2,500-Piso Doug las MacA r thur cen tenary coin (1980), and a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1981 ). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank C ircu lar No. 570, dated J u ne 9, 1977. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry requ i re l icenses issued by the Central B ank; such l icenses are not no rm a l ly granted except for impor ts and exports by or on beha lf of the monetary au tho r i t ies and indu s t r ial users. Changes during 1982 Exchange A rrangements March 5. It was announced that all th r i ft banks (p r iva te deve lopment bank s, sav ings and mortgage b ank s, and sav ings and loan associations) and rural b a n k s, cou ld, upon app l i c a t ion, be designated as au tho- rized foreign exchange dealers, thereby being em- powered to purchase (for peso) foreign currencies from tou r is ts, nonresidents inc lud ing ba l ikbayans, and resi- den ts, subject to certain terms and conditions (Circular No. 856). Imports and Import Payments January 18. Impo r ta t ion of t ires of specified types was made subject to prior approval of the Central Bank (MAAB No. 1; see also MAAB No. 9). January 19. Imports of spun yarn and sewing thread were made subject to prior certification from the Board of Inves tmen ts (MAAB No. 2). February 4. Imports requ i r ing no purchase of foreign exchange from the b a n k i ng system ("no-dollar importa- t ion") were exemp ted from certain documen ta t ion re- q u i r em e n ts (CB C i r cu l ar 849). February 15. Changes were made in import regula- tions as fo l lows: (a) au thor iza t ion was granted for the banks to sell foreign exchange for payment of imports of certain commodities w i th the categories classified as nonessential consumer goods and unclassified consumer goods, w i thout prior approval by the Central Bank (CB 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Circular 850); the opening of letters of credit for such imports should be reported to the Central Bank within 24 hours (MAAB No. 5); (b) the margin deposit required by authorized agent banks on import letters of credit opened for "watch listed" firms on or after March 1, 1982, was made subject to the following schedule: 90 percent as of March 1, 1982; 80 percent as of April 1, 1982, 70 percent as of May 1, 1982, 60 percent as of June 1, 1982; 50 percent as of July 1, 1982. (Previously, such deposits were subject to a 100 percent reserve require- ment—see CB Circular 852); and (c) imports of gasoline and kerosene engines for trucks and tractors no longer required prior clearance from the Board of Investment and the Central Bank, although a weekly report of such imports was required to be made to the Central Bank (MAAB No. 7). (Similar treatment was also extended to imports of caustic soda under MAAB No. 8). March 1. A list of commodities which should be referred by authorized agent banks to the Central Bank for prior approval and to the Ministry of Trade and Industry regarding applications for importations was specified (Circular No. 854). May 5. A number of amendments were made to the 1977 Philippine Standard Commodities Classification Manual (MAAB No. 16). July 8. It was announced that imports of any non- metric measuring devices should be allowed w i thout prior clearance of the Ministry of Trade and Indus try (MAAB No. 23). July 19. Agent banks were advised that the letter of credit requirement should apply to imports ind iv idu a l ly valued at less than US$1,000, when it is shown that (a) there was more than one importation of the same commodity category from the same supplier, (b) the aggregate value of the imports exceeded US$1,000, (c) the imports were shipped or mailed on the same carrier, on the same or successive dates (MAAB No. 24). July 30. Imports of hydrogen peroxide were made subject to the prior clearance of the Board of Inves tmen ts (MAAB No. 25). September 22. Imports of certain antibiotics were made subject to the prior approval of the Food and Drug Administration (MAAB No. 36). September 30. Importation of onions, potatoes, gar l ic, and cabbages was prohibited (MAAB No. 38). November 29. All applications for imports of paper and paperboard products under all modes of payment (including no-dollar shipments) were made subject to prior clearance from the Board of Investments through the Central Bank (MAAB No. 48). November 29. It was announced that importation of liquid caustic soda under any mode of payment inc lud ing no-dollar imports, would require prior clearance from the Board of Investments through the Central Bank (MAAB No. 49). December 7. It was announced that all applications for imports of the spun yarn and sewing thread categories under any mode of payment by firms registered with the Export Processing Zone could be given in due course 384 by authorized agent banks without prior clearance from the Board of Investments (MAAB No. 51). December 13. Applications for imports of synthetic resins and synthetic resin products under all modes of payment (including no-dollar shipments) were made subject to prior clearance from the Board of Investments on a temporary basis (MAAB No. 52). Payments for Invisibles July 1. It was announced that foreign tourists holding visas valid up to 59 days could remit abroad up to US$1,000 an individual; remittances in excess of US$1,000 should be approved by the Central Bank (MAAB No. 22). Capital February 1. It was announced that in granting approv- als for foreign borrowing, the Central Bank would attach high priority to projects in food, energy, exports, infrastructure, transportation, and communication. In addition, any prospective borrowing of US$3 million or more should be submitted for inclusion in the Central Bank 's programming of external credit resources (CB Circular 848). March 12. Authorization was granted for offshore bank ing un i ts to open and maintain peso deposit ac- counts w i th domestic agent banks exclusively for pur- poses of (a) meeting administrative and other operating expenses, such as salaries, rentals and the like, and (b) pay ing to the designated local beneficiaries of Filipino workers overseas the peso equ iva lent of their foreign exchange remittances covered through the offshore bank ing u n i t 's correspondent banks abroad. Such peso deposit accounts should be funded exclusively by inward remittances of foreign exchange e l ig ib le to form part of the international reserves of the Phillipines or those acceptable to the Central Bank as specified from time to t ime (C i rcu lar No. 859). March 31. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for offshore b ank ing un i ts to sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank for pesos (CB Circular Letter No. 1 ). April 2. It was announced that the mere signature in the Ph i l ipp ines by foreign lenders of loan agreements covering loans denominated or payable in foreign ex- change, disbursed and payable outside the Philippines, wou ld not constitute a transaction of business in the Philippines, the objective was to subject foreign lenders to qua l i f ica t ion requirements prescribed under Section 14 of Repub l ic Act No. 337 and Section 133 of the Corporation Code of the Philippines (Circular No. 868). October 7. A regulation was issued, specifying that the commercial banks' net foreign exchange position should not exceed the sum of 20 percent of their outstanding letters of credit and 30 percent of foreign exchange receipts negotiated through the commercial banks. All excess foreign exchange holdings of commer- cial banks should be sold to the Central Bank (MAAB No. 39). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of wh ich is adjusted at relatively short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portugal's international merchandise trade. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effec t ive ex- change rate of the escudo: the monthly rate of deprecia- tion, which was in i t ia l ly set in May 1978 at 1.25 percent but was lowered progressively to 0.50 percent by June 1980, was raised to 0.75 percent in December 1981. On December 31, 1982 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Esc 88.891 and Esc 89.237, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies! are quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the basis of U .S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. There is a tax of 0.5 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03875 = HK $ 1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange w i th the Bank of Portugal. They are also norma l ly allowed to deal in foreign exchange w i th banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange marke t. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing w i th their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a comm iss ion basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and the ir gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, w i th the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for th is purpose. Trade control policy is formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Indus t ry, Energy, and Export; almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to prior registra- 1 Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f rancs, Canad ian do l la r s, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i re, Irish pounds, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i lde r s, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds s ter l ing, South A f r ican r and, Span ish pesetas, Swed ish kroner, and Swiss francs. tion w i th the M in i s t ry. The Diredtor-General of Foreign Commerce in this Ministry is responsible for administer- ing trade controls. Import and export bulletins are issued by a department w i th in the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive departments. State agencies undertaking international trade transactions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U .S. dollars. Export transactions w i th other countries may be settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1) or in U .S. dollars. (Canadian dollars, Finnish markkaa, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, South African rand, and Spanish pesetas may only be used in transactions w i th the countries issu ing the currency .) Payments to nonresi- dents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of wh ich is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into (1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for wh ich the open ing, deb i t ing, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited w i thout prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for payments for transactions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between Portugal and foreign countries and for transfers between such ac- counts. For all other debit and credit operations, authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in Turkey, with which Portugal has a special clearing arrangement, are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to wh ich must be credited those Portuguese bank notes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amounts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited on ly for payments in escudos to residents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Portuguese em igran ts. Such accounts may be in the form of current accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of w i thd rawa l, or time accounts. W i thout prior authoriza- tion from the Bank of Portugal, deposit accounts may be credited only w i th remittances from abroad received 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, the equ iva lent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit ins t i tu t ions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited w i thout restrictions. Nonresidents may open time foreign accounts in eight foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad and w i th the related interest due and may be debited without restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations currently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, ma in ly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial f raud. Any physical or jur id ical en t i ty may be an importer; importers must have an import en t i t le- ment and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 15,000. Most imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tion, the bulletin enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bu l le t in is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is 3 mon ths for customs clearance purposes and 12 months from the date of customs clearance for settlement purposes; in special cases, longer va l id i ty periods may be granted. Personal baggage and imports of merchandise, the va lue of wh ich do not exceed Esc 15,000, do not require a bu l le t in, except when forming part of an order w i th a total va lue exceeding Esc 15,000 and provided they are not ex- pressly excluded from th is exemption. Imports of books up to Esc 20,000 and of newspapers and technical, scientific, or cultural periodicals up to Esc 60,000 are also exempt from the bu l le t ins. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, and f ru i t s, are subject temporarily to quota limitations in value terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs and other ag- ricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protec- tive reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization, wh ich is granted on 386 the merits of the case. Non l ibera l ized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted under ind iv idual au thor iza t ion. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on ind iv idual au tho r iza t ions; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance w i th bilateral trad ing arrangements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agricul- tu ral imports from certain EFT A countries. Imports of nonliberalized indus tr ial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in EFTA or EC countries. Special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. However, imports of passenger automobiles of non-EFTA and non-EC origin are allowed up to 15 un i ts a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 percent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EFTA and EC origin were allowed up to 350 un i ts for each producer in 1981 and are allowed up to 500 un i ts for each producer in 1982. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Domestic credit f inanc ing is restricted for certain imports and foreign financing is required for certain imports. M i n im um proportions of foreign f inanc ing and m in imum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 percent or 60 percent of the customs va lue, irrespective of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gener- ally free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not ma in ta in special clearing arrangements, the author- ized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of Esc 50,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portugal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equivalent of Esc 1 million. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a person a year, Esc 22,500 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 15,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists may take out of the country Esc 5,000 in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned l im i ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be subject to phasing for a period of up to one year, depending on the prevailing balance of payments situa- tion. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be depos- ited with domestic banks in accounts denominated in foreign exchange. Special provisions apply to situations of serious external imbalance, or when the amount involved is so large as to be deemed to entail serious economic and financial disturbance to the country; in such cases, individual remittances of profits and divi- dends may be suspended for a period of time to be determined by the Council of Ministers, but annual remittance of at least 20 percent of the amount involved shall always be authorized. By the end of 1982, these special provisions were, however, not in force. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 15,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins). Export bulletins are issued freely, w i th few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the value of wh ich do not exceed Esc 15,000, do not require a bu l le t in, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Re- exports of merchandise are exempt from prior registra- tion, regardless of their value. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of the export proceeds, w i th in the period and in the foreign currency stipulated in the export bulletin; the period for repatriation of export proceeds is, as a rule, fixed at four months from the date of customs clearance. Should settlement for exports occur later than four months after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the four-month period from the date of customs clearance would be applied. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad and fre igh t, insurance, or other charges from the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments in foreign currency for invisibles from residents of coun- tries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts may be effected through credit institutions and do not require prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in bank notes, coin, and checks denominated in foreign currency for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coin by nonresidents for other purposes require authori- zation by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by PORTUGAL nonresident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 25,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amount. Returning residents may bring in up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes and coin. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coin for settlement of external transactions. Capital All private capital transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal, and for transactions exceeding Esc 200 million and with a maturity of more than one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are permitted in all sectors except those wh ich, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund provides exchange risk insurance against losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 percent on approved foreign borrowing. When the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments involves large amounts the Bank of Portugal may require that the transfer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guarantees may be provided. Foreign loans and their repayments are author- ized as necessary. Capital movements and transfers of assets are subject to ceilings (up to which they are authorized auto- matically), according to Portugal's reservations to the OECD code of liberalization of capital movements. For larger amounts authorizations may be granted on the merits of each case. Direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authori- zation from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; authority to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangements March 23. The tax on sales of foreign exchange was raised from 0.3 percent to 0.5 percent. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL April 12. The weights in the currency basket used for determining the exchange rate of the escudo were modified, such that the weight of the U.S. dollar was reduced and the weight of specified European currencies was increased. June 16. The escudo was devalued in effective terms by 9.4 percent following the realignment of parities of EMS currencies. Imports and Import Payments March 1. Import value quotas were established for the period through March 31, 1983, for specified nonessen- tial consumer goods (Government Order 331-A/82). October 1. The limit for exemption from prior registration of imports of newspapers and techn ica l, scientific, or cultural periodicals was raised from Esc 40,000 to Esc 60,000 (Decision No. 37/82 of the Secretary of State for Exports). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles November 4. A regulation was introduced requiring that invoices for current invisible transactions should be denominated only in the foreign currencies quoted by theBank of Portugal, except for tourism transactions and for transactions specified in Portaria No. 453/77 of July 22, 1977 or other specific legislation that could be invoiced in escudos (Portaria No. 1018/82). Exports and Export Proceeds April 20. It was announced that when settlement for exports occurred later than four months after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the one hundred twentieth day would be applied (Portaria No. 397-A/82). Capital May 12. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment, which hitherto was authorized after five years of the initial investment, wou ld henceforth be freely permitted, on condition of compliance w i th the conditions established under the investment authorization (Decree-Law No. 174/82). 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. The commercial banks' exchange rates for transac- tions in U .S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agen- cy's buying and selling rates. A spread of 0.87 dirham is applied to exchange transactions w i th the public. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repa- triated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Foreign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 percent of the shares. For major industrial projects, it is government policy to assume a m in imum of 70 percent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the selling and buying of gold and precious metals are subject to import license and customs du ty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments November 26. The import duty on tobacco and cigarettes was raised from 10 percent to 30 percent. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official exchange rate for the leu is lei 4.47 per US$1 and lei 6.67 per rub 1. As part of the exchange rate and price reform started on January 1, 1981 the importance of the official exchange rate was greatly reduced. While in the past the official exchange rates were used for planning and accounting purposes, at present the only func t ion of the official exchange rate is to serve as a reference point in various categories of transactions for which the applicable exchange rates are defined as the official exchange rate plus an appropriate premium. The ex- change rate used for import transactions is the commer- cial rate, which is defined in terms of the U .S. dollar at a rate of lei 15 = US$1 on December 31, 1982. There are 12 other rates for export transactions .l The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 15 other currencies defined as "fully convertible"2 and for the Egyptian pound, the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israel shekel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U .S. dollar in the countries concerned. For currencies of other countries, exchange rates are based on rates quoted in Romania for third currencies; for members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),3 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the third currency used for this purpose is the transferable ruble. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected w i th trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of payments and receipts for travel arranged through tourist organizations, which are considered commercial transactions, and of most capital transactions (excluding transfer of inher- itances), nontrade exchange transactions are carried out at the noncommercial exchange rate of lei 12.50 per US$1, with the exception of those w i th member coun- tries of the CMEA, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Capital transactions other than those with the latter group of countries are settled at lei 15 per US$1. For the nontransport component of the expenses for individual travel to nonsocialist countries and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, a 100 percent tax is levied on foreign exchange pur- 'On January 1, 1983, the commercial exchange rate of the leu was depreciated from lei 15 to lei 16.5 per US$1; in addition, the number of separate exchange rates (other than the commercial rate) applicable to exports was reduced from 12 to 2. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 3The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. 390 chased, making the exchange rate lei 25 per US$1. For nontrade transactions w i th the CMEA countries, Al- bania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, special exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement; for transactions with the U .S .S .R ., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. Following the abolition of the equalization system on January 1, 1981, there continued to be multiple exchange rates for foreign trade bu t, instead of the uncountable number of implicit rates under the old system, there were 29 discrete rates by the end of 1981 and 12 at the end of 1982. For persons working abroad in technical assistance jobs or as professionals, such as medical doctors, daily allowances are paid in foreign exchange, and any accumulated surpluses can be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Romanians working in international organizations or joint ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are required to repatriate a part of it as a contribution to the fund for tra in ing of staff involved in international cooperation and for the maintenance of their families at home. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized industrial cen- trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of existing trade agree- ments are taken into account. Foreign currency proceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those agreements.4 If no agreement exists, settlement is usua l ly made in a convertible currency. Certain commer- cial settlements w i th Turkey are made in U .S. dollars under a credit agreement. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. 4The countries w i th wh ich bilateral paymen ts agreements were in force as of December 31, 1982 were A lban ia, Bang ladesh, Brazil, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Colombia, Ecuador, Ghana, Ind ia, Islamic Re- public of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, and Viet Nam. Settlements w i th Bu lgar ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and U .S .S .R. take place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Certain settlements w i th Singapore also take place through special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and phys ical persons may m a in t a in accounts w i th the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade, the Na t ional Bank, or w i th foreign banks hav ing branch offices in Roman ia. These accounts are of three k inds: A-Accounts are ma in ta ined in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, from the se l l ing of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than s i lver; B- Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the Na t ional Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any ind iv idual B-Account may be ef- fected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad in any currency, for payments w i th in the coun try, and for transfers to any other A -, B-, or C-Account. B-Accoun ts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from wh ich the funds were derived and for paymen ts w i th in Roman ia. C-Accounts may be debited on ly for domestic transac t ions. The transactions permitted for the d i f fe rent accounts do not require any fu r ther au thor iza- t ion. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei w i th the Savings and Cons ignment B ank. The Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident custom- ers t ime deposits in conver t ib le fore ign currenc ies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, inc lud ing Romanians working abroad who transfer the ir savings to Roman ia, may open foreign currency accounts w i th the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade or the Na t ional Bank. The deposits may be used for paymen ts in foreign cu r rency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the noncommerc ial exchange rate. The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benef it of Roman ian c i t izens (such as the b u i l d i ng or pu rchas ing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. For certain other fore ign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inhe r i tances, donations, assistance, or f am i ly ma in tenance, a propor- tion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Imports and Exports The adm in is tra t ive framework for p l ann ing and exe- cu t ing foreign trade in Roman ia is provided in the Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 12 of December 1980). International economic cooperation is organized and carried out in accordance w i th the p r inc ip le of wo rk ing people's self-management and se l f -adm in is t ra t ion of economic, f inanc ia l, and foreign exchange. The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic u n i t s, production enterprises, and ROMANIA indu s t r ial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies on ly a l im i ted number of goods considered of par t icu lar importance for the na t ional economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but d is t ingu ishes between the clear- ing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of au tho r iza t ions issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The au thor iza t ions are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade un i t s, for all types of goods, regardless of or ig in. The Ministry may take measures to cu rb imports w i th a v iew to equ i l ib r a t ing the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of na t ional defense and the security of the State, e tc ., in accordance w i th the provisions of the GATT. As a ru le, annual import au thor iza t ions ex- pressed in va lue terms are issued to ind iv idual importing enterprises as a l ump sum or for a single k ind of product. The au tho r iza t ion s t ipu la tes whe ther import payments are to be made in conver t ib le currency or under bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts, and, in the latter case, the coun t ry is also specified. Export proceeds mu st be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for inves tment in complex ins ta l la t ions (as- semb l ies, subassemb l ies, mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and spare parts) are delivered to the buy ing un i ts at domestic prices wh i ch are equal to the customs va lue (calculated by mu l t ip ly ing the external price by lei 15 per US$1) p lus cus toms du t ie s. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing un i ts at retail prices less the commerc ial d iscoun t. The difference between prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of cus toms va lue p lus customs du t ies and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the f inanc ial accounts of the importing foreign trade u n i t. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 ta r i ff positions and subpositions. Customs du t ies are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw ma te r ia ls, assemb l ies, subassemb l ies, and spare parts for produc t ion, repair, and ma in tenance, to ta l ing about 500 tar iff positions and subpositions. The customs tar iff is nond isc r im ina to ry. Decree No. 3377 1981 issued on November 26, 1981 increased tar iffs on personal imports of certain items in to Roman ia above the va lue l im i ts for the specified goods. The import goods proh ib i ted to ind iv idu a ls inc lude passenger cars w i th h igh fuel consump t ion, m in ibu se s, firearms, and air cond i t ioners. Customs du t ies on personal imports of a number of consumer durables, such as motorcycles and electrical appliances, are levied at rates of between 100 percent and 300 percent above the applicable customs ta r i f f. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or ind iv idual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside the socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12.5 per US$1. With specified exceptions, travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)5 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their families; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents ac- credited to Romania and their families; (c) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including jo int ventures) and their families; (e) guests of socialist un i ts and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations having their headquarters in Romania; (f) children under 14; (g) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cu l tura l, technical, and scientific cooper- ation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) foreign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (k) Romanian citizens possessing a valid Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Romanian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories (j)-(!). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding 5The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U .S. do l lar, are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Israel shekels, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugos lav dinars. foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permitted. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agree- ments have been concluded w i th a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establishment of jo int ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 percent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital, and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement, the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in tu rn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The number of exchange rates (other than the commercial rate) applied for exports of various products was reduced from 25 to 12, and the spread between the highest and lowest rates from lei 17 to lei 10, per US$1. The separate exchange rate of lei 14 per US$1 for imports of iron ore and coking coal was e l im ina ted, and the rate for imports of crude oil was changed from lei 10 per US$1 to lei 12 per US$1. July 1. The separate exchange rate for crude oil imports was eliminated, making the commercial ex- change rate of lei 15 per US$1 applicable for all imports settled in convertible currencies. December 29. The noncommercial exchange rate of the leu was depreciated from lei 11 to lei 12.5 per US$1. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar at RF 92.84 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are RF 91.91 and RF 93.77, respectively, per US$1. For certain other currencies1 that are officially quoted, the daily middle rates are derived on the basis of (a) the fixed rate w i th the dollar and the exchange rate of the U .S. dollar (in terms of Belgian francs) in the Brussels market, and (b) the exchange rate of the currency in question in relation to the Belgian franc on the preceding business day. The average rate for the Burundi franc, wh ich also is officially quoted, is the ratio between the fixed rate for the U .S. dollar in Kigali and the fixed rate for the U .S. dollar in Bujumbura. The officially quoted rates for the zaire and for the Kenya sh i l l ing are derived from the dollar value of the SDR two days earlier and the fixed relationship of these currencies to the SDR. The buy ing and selling rates for all currencies are set 1 percent below and 1 percent above the middle rate, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank); authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, deter- mined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and f ive other members; however, this Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency The National Bank has concluded agreements with the central banks of neighboring countries and Kenya, under which settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Otherwise, pay- ments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, wh i ch, in pr inc ip le, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange transactions w i th South Africa are prohibited. 'Be lg ian f rancs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, and Swiss francs. Imports and Import Payments2 Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as explosives and weapons, from all sources require prior authorization, for reasons of pub l ic security. Imports of narcotics are prohibited. All imports valued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. K iga l i, if payment is required in foreign exchange. No license is required for the import of merchandise valued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, when paid for in Rwanda francs. Imports of household removal goods and personal effects of nonres- idents and resident expatriates are also exempt. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value on import licenses that involve use of official foreign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to the control of the General Superintendence Company. The validation of other import licenses is subject to a processing fee of RF 350 in each case. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. Unless otherwise specified, the ap- proval of an import license application constitutes an authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. The Na t ional Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months (six months in the case of vehicle parts). Licenses are examined at the Na t ional Bank to avoid overinvoicing. Any importer app ly ing for a license must do so on the appropriate form and state that when pay ing for the imports he w i ll not exceed the credit l im it normally allowed under the regu la t ions. Dealers in imported automobiles must be registered as such by the National Bank. At the time of obtaining an import license, the importing dealer must deposit an amount equivalent to the c . i . f. Kigali value after customs clearance for automobiles over 11 horse- power. Used automobiles can be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the ava i lab i l i ty of spare parts. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of sh ipmen t, but control is exercised to ensure that pay- ments are made to the supplier or shipper. Imports whose f .o .b. va lue on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million are inspected by the General Superinten- dence Company of Geneva for qua l i ty and quan t i ty in the 2 B e g i n n i ng March 1 1983, Rw anda introduced a scheme under w h i ch purchases of foreign exchange are subject to a non-interest- bearing deposit of 50 percent or 100 percent of the c. & f. value of impor ts, depend ing on the goods. The deposits are held by the National Bank of Rwanda for the period averaging about nine months between v a l id a t ion of import licenses and customs clearance of goods. The practice invo lves a m u l t i p le currency practice. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA country of origin3 prior to shipment, and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be pre- sented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), import licenses are replaced by import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enterprises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for (1) transport and other expenses (except insurance) con- nected with imports and exports; (2) transfers of the salaries or wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract (net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and after deduction of an amount for local expenses equiva- lent to 40 percent of net pay after tax, with a m in imum of RF 50,000 a month and a limit of RF 70,000 a month for a head of household plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda, whichever is higher; and (3) transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or engaged in a profession or established as independent traders (also net of taxes and after deduction for local expenses). A fee of RF 350 is levied for a transfer authorization. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except in cases of payment by means of documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company constituted under Rwanda law. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the Na- tional Bank to take out foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank notes 3Except for imports from A fghan is tan, Albania, Bu rund i, Came- roon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of Ch ina, Comoros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U .S .S .R ., Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Repub l ic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zimbabwe. 394 declared upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 350 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, wh ich also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting from services per- formed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. All means of payment must be declared on entering Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic bank notes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guarantees are given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Outward transfer of proceeds from sales of real estate is suspended. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes during 1982 Capital October 1. Outward transfer of proceeds from the sale of real estate were suspended until further notice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the East Caribbean Do l lar ,l which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA). The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 2 percent. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance and Planning and applies to all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payment for goods and services in a currency different from that of the country to wh ich payment is to be made. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents and business enterprises w i th the approval of the Minis- try of Finance and Planning and may be maintained in the currency of receipt or in East Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only w i th foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may deposit currency notes into them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in East Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, inc lud ing payment for imports. Resident companies may be allowed to open 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts -Nev is, and St. Vincent and Grenad ines. 2The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Ba rbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts- Nevis, St. Luc ia, St. V incent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. XXX External Accounts (in East Caribbean currency or the currency of receipt), provided that deposits to the accounts are restricted to funds received from overseas and that drawings on the accounts are for payments abroad. Local payments from these accounts require that the amount be converted to East Caribbean dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import licenses. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. St. Lucia applies the new rules of origin of merchandise adopted by the CARICOM in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance pay- ments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and P lann ing. Imports of live an ima ls, m i lk, meat, f ish, eggs, fer t i l izers, and most agricultural and industrial ma- chinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) countries, imports under indus tr ial incentive legislation, and items ex- empted under the Hotel Aids Ordinance. Import duties begin at a m i n im um of 5 percent and are scheduled to be brought in line w i th the CARICOM common external tariff by 1983; duties on bay rum and firearms are at a higher rate of 70 percent. Imports of fertilizer are subject to a stamp du ty of !/s of 1 percent of the c . i . f. va lue. All other imports are subject to a stamp du ty of 5 percent of the c . i . f. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For travel w i th in the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (wh ich are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. The East Caribbean dollar is freely transferable w i th in the ECCA. W i th the approval of the Ministry of Finance and P lann ing, profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to confirmation by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be h igh, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance premiums are subject to tax as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent and 5 percent for residents and nonresident companies, respectively. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any destination. Proceeds from exports mus t, in principle, be surrendered. A duty of EC$0.0025 a pound is levied on exports of bananas. A special fee of EC$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Travelers to St. Lucia may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a higher rate in the case of nonresident purchasers. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement September 18. A 2 percent tax was imposed on private sector purchases of foreign exchange from commercial banks. The tax would apply to all transactions requiring payment in foreign currency. At the same time, the import surcharge of 2 percent on the stamp du ty, introduced in November 1981, was abolished. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. V incent and the Grenadines is the East Caribbean Do l la r ,l wh ich is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1982 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Au thor i ty also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound s ter l ing. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. St. V incent and the Grenadines fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Augu st 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance and applies to all countries ou ts ide the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty area. The M i n i s t ry dele- gates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve some import payments and certain other paymen t s. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member coun t r ies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM )2 mu st be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CAR ICOM coun t ry concerned. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any fore ign cu r rency3 or th rough an External Account in East Caribbean do l la rs. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonres iden ts w i th the authorization of the M in i s t ry of F inance. They are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited w i th inward remittances in foreign currency and w i th transfers from other Ex ternal Accoun ts. Except w i th the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of F inance, East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts m ay, however, be freely debited for paymen ts abroad and to res iden ts, w i thout the prior au thor iza t ion of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts mu st be submitted to the M in i s t ry of Finance by the opera t ing banks. 1 The East Caribbean do l lar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Dom in ica, Grenada, Mon tserra t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s, and S t. Lucia. 2The CAR ICOM countries are A n t i g ua and B a r b u d a, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, Grenada, G u y a n a, J am a i c a, Mon tserra t, S t. K i t t s- Nev is, S t. Luc ia, S t. V in c ent and G renad ines, and T r in idad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies Caribbean do l lar. inc lude all currenc ies o ther than the East Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents w i th the au thor iza t ion of the M in is t ry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only w i th funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except w i th the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance, remittances in East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad w i thout prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts mu st be subm i t ted to the M in i s t ry of Finance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are proh ib i ted. Imports are d iv ided in to three categories: most goods may be freely imported; imports of some goods wh ich compete w i th typ ical exports of other countries in the CAR ICOM and the East Car ibbean Common Marke t4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods wh i ch compete w i th loca l ly made products are prohibited in some cases. Paymen ts for authorized imports are permitted upon app l ica t ion and subm iss ion of documen tary evidence and, when r equ i r ed, of the l icense. Advance paymen ts for imports requ ire prior approval by the M in i s t ry of F inance. Most impor ts are subject to a stamp tax of 7.5 percent of the c . i . f. v a lu e. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for t rave l, medical t rea tmen t, education, subsc r ip t ion and membe r sh ip fees, and g i f ts are subject to l im i t s. All other paymen ts exceeding EC$50 require approval by the M in i s t ry of F inance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equ iv a l ent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty area; for bus iness t rave l, add i t ional allocations of foreign exchange may be made ava i lab le up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased w i th the au tho r iza t ion of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the M in i s t ry of Finance upon presentation of a written statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the trea tmen t. The amount approved is based on the ac tual cost of the trea tmen t. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is l im i ted to EC$50 a t r ip. Students a t tend ing educa t ional ins t i tu t ions overseas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tu i t ion and l i v i ng expenses. Documentary proof 4The East Ca r ibbean Common Ma rket is composed of A n t i g ua and Ba rbuda, D om i n i c a, G renada, Mon tserra t, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s, S t. Luc ia, and S t. V i n c e nt and G r en ad in e s. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES of acceptance and attendance at the ins t i tu t ion is re- quired. Transfers of funds w i th in the East Caribbean Currency Authority area require authorization of the Ministry of Finance when ind iv idual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM mar- keting protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the M in is try of Trade, which in some cases has delegated the power to the St. Vincent Agricultural Marketing Board. Export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 percent export du ty is levied on bananas, arrowroot, starch, and ginger. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in inv is- ibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. On presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is being taken in a foreign coun try, em igran ts may apply to the M in i s t ry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the va lue of assets held in St. V incen t. Transfer of sums exceeding EC$20,000 a year is not normally permitted. The transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by em igran ts already resident in a foreign country is also l im i ted to EC$20,000 a year. Direct inves tment in St. V incent by nonresidents is not subject to exchange Control. The remittance of earnings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds f rom, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any l iab i l i t ies related to the inves tmen t. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. V incen t. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance the ir domestic operations requires the approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for n um i sm a t ic purposes on ly. Under license by the M in i s t ry of F inance, imports of gold are permitted for indus tr ial purposes on ly. Changes during 1982 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central bank) for the dobra against the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also deter- mined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies with respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Db 40.5076 and Db 41.5331, respectively, each US$1. Charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange are influenced by the relatively high processing cost of transactions with the rest of the world, reflecting the limited communication facilities. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of these charges —namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the National Bank charges a commission of 1 percent of value and a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction; in addition, there is a stamp duty of 1 percent on import bills and of 3 percent on import letters of credit. (Import financing other than by letters of credit is not subject to the 3 percent stamp du ty .) To foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, amount- ing to the equivalent of US$6 for funds ranging between US$100 and US$1,000 and the equivalent of US$10 for amounts in excess of US$1,000; in addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 15 for each transaction, together with a stamp duty of Db 3 for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of Db 1,000 and Db 2 for each Db 500 or part thereof above the equivalent of Db 1,000. For collection of export pro- ceeds, the National Bank charges, in favor of foreign correspondents, a commission margin that varies accord- ing to the value of the transaction; there is also a separate commission of 1 percent, and a m in imum postage levy of Db 50 for each transaction. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through that Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. There are bilateral payments agreements with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are extended in accordance with Advance Import Regis- tration Bulletins, which are valid for six months, but may be extended, if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c . i . f. and f .o .b. values of the product to be imported and also the currency of settlement. Licenses granted have to be presented to the National Bank within 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Imports of some products, such as beans, corn and corn flour, fuels, edible oils, meat, milk, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat are a state monopoly and are imported exclusively by the External Commerce Company. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply and economic devel- opment requirements. Prepayment of imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved according to limitations established by the National Bank and in accordance with limits specified under Decree-Law No. 51/82 of December 31, 1982. The limits, which allow for additional amounts in justifiable cases, include those for (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are insufficient; (2) transfers of monthly remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings when under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, costs of communication with foreign countries, etc. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been temporarily suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payments of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be established. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 20,000 in the first month and Db 10,000 in each of the ensuing two months, if adequate justification is provided. Further transfers may be approved beyond the additional two months, if justifiable. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances by 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 1980. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year a student may receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses; in addition, remittances of maintenance allowance of up to Db 2,000 may be made in eligible cases. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 percent. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum declared upon entry. For this purpose, it is expected that the daily expenses of a tourist will not be less than Db 3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bu l le t ins, wh ich specifies the quan t i ty and c . i . f. or f .o .b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. The Directorate of External Commercial Enter- prises, a state institution, is responsible for exports, including those produced in the nationalized sector of the economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring exchange. in any amount of foreign Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code (Decree-Law No. 30/80, of August 5, 1980). Transfers are permitted for repayment of financ- ing under agreements w i th the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in activities considered to be of national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authoriza- tion by the National Bank. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around the fixed relationship; these margins were temporarily suspended on Ju ly 22, 1981. The middle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1982 the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U .S. dollar was SRls 3.435; it sold U .S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.44 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.43 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buy ing and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Afr ica is proh ib i ted .l No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments2 Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. The importa- tion of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security; importation of certain other items in specified forms is also prohibited. Some imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 3 percent and 20 percent, imports from member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council are exempted. Certain 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for all types of transactions whether of a current or capital nature. 2 On March 1, 1983, Saudi Arabia abolished customs duties on goods originating in member states of the Gu lf Cooperation Counc i l. imports from Lebanon are subject to proof of origin requirements. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian bank notes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in industrial or ag- ricultural projects w i th at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, inc lud ing private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and w i thout payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the exception of 14-karat gold, the import of which is prohibited. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments July 21. Import of lubricating oils was made subject to an import du ty at the rate of 20 percent for a period of three years. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA F ranc ,l wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll for transfers from countries outside the West African Mone- tary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 An exchange commission of 0 .125 —1 .0 per mill, depending on the amount, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addi- tion, they levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, 72 percent of which must be surrendered to the Treasury through the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, including those for gold. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account coun try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a m in imum flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 402 and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Settle- ments w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank 's foreign correspondent; such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter w i th an authorized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, w i th the va lue of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from South Afr ica are proh ib i ted, and the import of certain goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to ind iv idual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Minis- try of Economy and Finance. Imports of v ir tua l ly all goods from EC countries (the six original member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the former Organization for European Economic Coopera- tion (OEEC), the United States, and Canada are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer h imse l f. Imports of certain goods from countries outside the EC, the French Franc Area, or the West African Economic Commun i ty are subject to prior authorization. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegal- ese border or c . i . f . ). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been im- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of lad ing ). Furthermore, pay- ments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other coun tr ies are subject to approval. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Au tho r- ized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents w i thout requiring documents. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for ch i ldren under ten ); any foreign exchange rema in ing after re turn to Senegal mu st be surrendered. Applications for additional amoun ts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For bus iness travel, there is a special allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 300,000 a person a tr ip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months fo l low ing the pay period; however, for Maur i tan ian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 percent or 80 percent, depending on f am i ly status and residence, except for leave salaries, wh ich are transferable in f u l l. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take ou t, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, bu t, if proceeding to a coun try that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary U n i o n, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of paymen t, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of foreign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. W i th a few exceptions (e .g ., gold, d iamonds, tuna f i sh ), exports to SENEGAL countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other coun tr ies require licenses, ma in ly in order to assure adequate supp l ies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, in c lud ing countries of the French Franc Area, must no rma l ly be collected w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination and repatriated not later than one month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents br ing ing in foreign bank notes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank w i t h in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Africa are proh ib i ted. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted f ree ly. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be app l icab le) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all ou tward inve s tmen t, and over the issu ing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations requ ire prior authorization by the M in i s ter of Economy and F inance. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegal- ese Government and (2) shares that are identical w i t h, or may be subs t i tu ted for, securities whose issue, offer ing, or sale in Senegal has prev ious ly been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account coun tr ies. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign f i rms and ins t i tu t ions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at p lac ing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister and the BCEAO within 20 days following each oper- ation. Direct investments constitute investments imply- ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere partici- pation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special 3 Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special author- ization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export industries estab- lished in the industrial free trade zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Import and export licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Exempt from this requirement are (1) im- ports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Corporation for the Promotion of Art Handicrafts (Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de TArtisanat d'Art) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the pound s ter l ing, the intervention currency, are determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the pound sterling-SDR rate on the previous business day. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates of the Seychelles Monetary Au tho r i ty1 for the pound sterling were SR 10.5838 and SR 10.6899, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Monetary Authority charges a commission of 0.25 percent for buying and 0.75 percent for selling of pounds sterling and U .S. dollars. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the daily calculations of SDR rates for the respective currencies. These rates are circulated da i ly to the commercial banks by the Monetary Au tho r i ty. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for imports, except where goods imported from South Africa are concerned. With this exception, most goods may be imported freely from any source under open general license. Payments for such transactions may be effected without the completion of application forms. A limited number of imports require a specific license, and the import of a few items is prohibited. Most imports are subject to duties, w i th a preferential schedule of rates applying to goods originating in Commonwea l th, ACP, and EC countries. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for inv is ib les, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel 'On January 1, 1983, the Seychelles Monetary A u t h o r i ty became the Central Bank of the Seychelles. exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports norma l ly do not require licenses, but certain exports are subject to du t ies. Residents may export goods without exchange control formality to any coun- try, except South Afr ica. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from inv is ib les may be disposed of free ly. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital payments. Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed w i thout l im i t. Whether or not they have been granted temporary residential status, non- nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earn- ings w i thout l im i t. New inves tment outside Seychelles by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct invest- men t, increased inves tment in existing entities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is free of restrictions. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Two commemorative gold coins in denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 have been issued and are legal tender. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments August 30. A specific du ty was introduced on imports of rice. November 15. Import duties were raised in varying degrees on a range of products. November 30. Imports of certain categories of meat and f ish, vegetables, f ru i ts and ju ices, beer, wood, and plastic bags were placed under import licensing. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on January 77, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone. Effective January 17, 1983 Sierra Leone quotes two separate exchange rates based on an official market and a commercial market. In the official market, the leone is pegged to the SDR at Le 1 = SDR 0.731566; on January 17, 1983 the Bank of Sierra Leone's buying and selling rates in the official market were US$0.82239 and US$0.80567, respectively, per Le 1. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals at the official market rate only in pounds sterling and the U.S. dollar, at the daily rate deter- mined on the basis of the SDR-pound sterling rate and the SDR-U.S. dollar rate, subject to a maximum com- mission of 2 percent on the selling side only. The rate in the commercial market is determined in U .S. dollar terms by means of a fortnightly auction held by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the rate in this market on January 17, 1983 (the first auction date) was Le 2.45 per US$1. Rates for other currencies in the commercial market are determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rates for the respective currencies in the London market, subject to a commission of 1 percent on the selling side only. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance, but the day-to-day administration of ex- change control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone with the assistance of the commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange (at the commercial market rate) for permitted commer- cial market imports and for travel expenses within specified limits. Purchases beyond these limits must be made by the purchasers directly by bidding at the fortnightly foreign exchange auction; prior approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is required. Sales of foreign exchange for official market imports are made through the Bank of Sierra Leone. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account, in the currency of the exporting country, in sterling, or in U .S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an 406 External Account, in the currency of the importing country, or in any specified currency .1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, and surren- dered through the banking system of Sierra Leone. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone are designated External Accounts. Residents of former Sterling Area countries2 may maintain Sterling Area Accounts denominated in leones. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Namibia and South Africa are prohibited. Priority imports may be imported using open general licenses, while other permissible imports may be effected using specific import licenses. Priority imports include all items in the prevailing priority lists A and B of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Import Controls (CSIC). Among the items on these lists are rice, sugar, and other essential food products, and raw materials and spare parts for industry. Imports of rice can be made only by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board and licensed dealers. Items in list "C" of the CSIC consist of those that are either prohibited or subject to import quotas set by the CSIC; among the permissible imports in this list are cars, television sets, mineral water, paint, and dried and fresh fru i ts. Specific licenses and quotas on many items have been replaced by open general licensing, and quotas on most items subject to specific licensing have been liberalized. There has been an accumulation of arrears on import payments. For exchange control purposes, imports are classified into two categories: goods which may be imported through the official market at the official market ex- change rate and those which must be imported through the commercial market at the commercial market ex- change rate. Crude oil and oil products, flour and wheat, prescribed textbooks and educational materials, and imports associated with official loans and grants may be effected through the official market. All other imports must enter through the commercial market. Applications for foreign exchange to purchase official market imports must be made directly to the Bank of Sierra Leone. With the appropriate documentation, individual purchases for commercial market imports not 'Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 2Sierra Leone's regulations still provide a definition of the Sterling Area; the def in i t ion includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceeding US$1,000 may be effected directly through the commercial banks. For larger commercial market transactions, customers must purchase the necessary foreign exchange by bidding directly at the fortnightly auction held by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Sealed bids for the auction must be submitted to the commercial banks and supported by the appropriate documentation. All bids must be backed with deposit of funds equivalent to the leone value of the bid; such deposits are placed in blocked accounts pending the outcome of the auction. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice entry fee and to an import licensing fee, both equal to 12 percent of the c.i.f. value; the rate for imports from countries belong- ing to the Economic Community of West African States is 5 percent. To cover the costs of issuing licenses, a levy of 2.5 percent is imposed on the c . i .f. value of all imports, payable at the time of importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require ap- proval, which for many current transactions is given freely. Remittances of earnings by foreign nationals are limited, in principle, to US$6,500 or 40 percent of net taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may permit the transfer of larger amounts. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. Buying commission for agents abroad is not normally permitted to exceed 3 percent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not normally allowed. There are arrears on payments for current invisibles, including interest on official debt. All payments for invisibles (including foreign travel) must be transacted at the commercial market rate. With the appropriate documentation, the foreign exchange for individual transactions of up to US$1,000 may be purchased directly from authorized banks. Larger amounts must be purchased directly through the Bank of Sierra Leone's fortnightly auction. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of US$1,000 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destina- tion, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency bank notes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 10 percent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of purchase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the exporta- tion of which is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all countries SIERRA LEONE except Namibia and South Africa. The proceeds of exports, including diamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the proceeds must be received by the exporter and sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone or the Bank of Sierra Leone within 60 days from the date of export, or 45 days for coffee and cocoa, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from specified traditional exports must be surrendered at the official market rate to the Bank of Sierra Leone; proceeds from all other exports may be surrendered either to the Bank of Sierra Leone or any authorized bank in Sierra Leone. Obligatory surrender at the official market rate applies to 50 percent of the export receipts of the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board, 67 percent of the export receipts of the National Diamond Mining Company (DIMINCO), the Iron Ore Company, bauxite exports, and all receipts from bunker oil sales. All other export receipts may be surrendered at the commercial market rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the commercial market rate. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 20 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonresidents may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. With the exception of borrowings, and principal and interest payments by the Government or Bank of Sierra Leone and payments relating to official and certified commercial arrears, all capital transactions are effected at the commercial market rate. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securi- ties registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or ag- ricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer at the com- mercial market rate. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area (see footnote 2) and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make available to the Govern- ment gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. The Bank of Sierra Leone is the only official exporter of gold. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1982. Exchange Arrangement December 17. A dual exchange rate system was announced. Without changing the official exchange rate, a system was established under which a commercial market exchange rate would be determined in terms of the U.S. dollar by fortnightly foreign exchange auctions; the exchange rate of the first auction was announced on January 17, 1983. December 20. Pending the first foreign exchange auction, the banks were allowed to buy foreign exchange 408 at a commercial market rate of not less than Le 2.30 per US$1 and to sell such foreign exchange for docu- mented commercial market transactions not exceeding US$1,000, at the purchase price plus a commission. Administration of Control December 17. The Cabinet Sub-Committee on Import Control (CSIC) ceased to set overall foreign exchange budget for imports; its work was henceforth limited to setting quotas on items that were still subject to specific import licensing. Imports and Import Payments December 17. The specific licensing applied to the items covered by the priority import lists A and B of the CSIC was changed to open general licensing. In addi- tion, (a) the items in priority list "C" were either prohibited or made permissible under specific import licenses with liberalized import quotas; (b) issuance of unnumbered import licenses was abolished; and (c) payment of the import license fee of 2.5 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports was redefined to be at time of actual importation rather than at the time of issuance of the import license. Payments for Invisibles December 17. The limit on outward remittances of savings by resident foreign nationals without special approval by the Bank of Sierra Leone was changed from the lesser of Le 8,000 or 40 percent of gross income to the lesser of US$6,500 or 40 percent of net income. In addition, the basic exchange allowance for foreign travel was raised from the equivalent of Le 500 to US$1,000 a calendar year. Exports and Export Proceeds December 17. Fifty percent of the export receipts of the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board and 67 percent of the export proceeds of the National Diamond Mining Company (DlMlNCO), the Iron Ore Company, bauxite exports, and all receipts from bunker oil sales were required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate at the Bank of Sierra Leone. The remaining export receipts of these companies and the receipts from all other exports were to be surrendered at the commercial market rate at authorized banks in Sierra Leone or at the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exporters were required to surrender the requisite proceeds within 60 days from the date of export, with the exception of the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board which was required to surren- der proceeds from coffee and cocoa exports within 45 days. In arrangements involving the surrender of foreign exchange more than 30 days after shipment, it was required that shipment be covered by a letter of credit with an authorized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The value of the Singapore dollar is determined on the basis of its fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies representing Singapore's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market. The buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were S$2.1075 and S$2.1095, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U .S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currencies. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry adminis- ters import and export controls; the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports is empowered to approve imports and exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa or any territory administered by it are prohibited. Import licenses are required for the following items, irrespective of origin: (1) rice (excluding rice bran), refined sugar, air- conditioning machines not exceeding 9,000 KCAL/H (excluding air-conditioning machines for motor vehi- cles); and (2) all goods originating in or consigned from Albania, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. License applications for goods under the second category are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports, payable to the Government. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonres- idents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain textiles of Singapore origin to Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are subject to quantitative restriction. Exports of a few other items are restricted irrespective of destination. Other commodities do not require an export license. Export proceeds need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surren- dered and may be disposed of freely. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. Govern- ment approval is required for investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommo- dation of their senior personnel. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in currencies other than Singapore dollars. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents who are members of the Gold Exchange of Singapore have free access. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. There are 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE two distinct gold markets, the physical market and the futures market. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Singapore or in London, with appropriate price adjustments for the cost of transporta- tion and insurance. The price of gold used for the manufacture of ornaments is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1982 this price was about S$ 1.360 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$1.220 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments April 30. The import du ty was lifted on chlorine and color television sets with screens bigger than 55 centimeters. Gold April 1. It was announced that gold deposits held by foreigners not resident or domiciled in Singapore would no longer be liable to estate du ty. 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, issued by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. * The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Monetary Authority may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar, up to a total of 2 percent during any four-week period. Quotations for the Australian dollar and the U .S. dollar are provided by the Monetary Authority. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings w i th the public were $A 0.9782 and $A 0.9724, respectively, per SI$1, and US$0.9599 and US$0.9541, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on Ju ly 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Monetary Authority by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Monetary Authority delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, wh ich have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of applica- tion for exchange control approval up to specified l im i ts. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Monetary Au thor i ty. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a citizen of a foreign country who intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near fu tu re. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indicates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands, wh ich are expressed in a foreign 'The Central Bank of Solomon Islands replaced Solomon Is lands Monetary Au thor i ty on Janua ry 24, 1983. currency, may only be met by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Sol- omon Islands dollars w i th authorized dealers, but ap- proval from the Monetary Authority or authorized dealers is required for the crediting of these accounts. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Monetary Authority or author- ized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions w i thout reference to the Monetary Au thor i ty. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from companies in Sol- omon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are per- mitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing perma- nently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or f l ight tickets. Requests for unusua l ly large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Mone- tary Authority. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, without the approval of the Monetary Authority, which is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods w i thout exchange control formality provided that they comply w i th the terms of the General Au thor i ty issued by the Monetary Au thor i ty. The essential conditions of this General Authority are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six months before or after the date of export, that the export price is reasonable, and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Monetary Authority for a Specific 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Monetary Authority. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned invest- ment capital, repayment of overseas borrowings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' fund s. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct invest- ment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Monetary Au thor i ty is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Approval is normally not given for the acquisition of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Monetary Authority is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a com- pany or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Monetary Authority before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, inc lud ing the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the National Investment Council in the Prime M in is te r 's Office must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Na tural Resources to m ine, buy, or export gold. The Monetary Authority is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement August 13. The Solomon Islands dollar was devalued in terms of its basket of currencies by 10 percent. In addition, the Monetary Authority was empowered to make further discretionary adjustments to the value of the Solomon Islands dollar up to a limit of 2 percent dur ing any four-week period. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1. Somalia applies margins not exceeding 2.25 percent around this fixed relationship. On December 31, 1982 the offi- cial buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, were So. Sh. 15.0511 and So. Sh. 15.3593, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in certain "convertible" currencies,1 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange.2 Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1), and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine invis- ibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U .S .S .R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds ster- ling. Settlements with all other countries must be made 'Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U .A . E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2On January 1, 1983 an exchange premium scheme was introduced, under which an additional So. Sh. 5 per US$1 above the official exchange rate is provided for inward remittances by emigrant workers and capital inflows effected by Somali nationals abroad. in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and foreign institutions having diplomatic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospec- ting or consultancy services. External accounts in U .S. dollars may be opened by Somali workers abroad and, under certain conditions, by exporters of livestock as well as other Somali nationals. Such accounts may be credited with amounts corresponding to the difference between the export price listed in the letter of credit and the actual sale price in the foreign market; they may also be debited for import payments, invisible payments for personal purposes, and transfers to other external accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Private importers can open letters of credit for import items not controlled exclusively by public importing agencies. Individual licenses are required for all commodities. The state- trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. The Iraqi-Somali Oil Refinery is responsible for the import of crude petroleum, while the National Petroleum Agency is the only importer of other fuels and fuel products. The franco valuta system has been abolished, under which licenses were issued freely to private importers who had obtained foreign exchange from sources outside Somalia (mainly from Somali nationals working abroad) in order to pay for imports. The new arrangement calls for all private importers to apply for import licenses, which are issued on a case-by-case basis; qualified importers can purchase foreign exchange from the authorized dealer. An advance deposit equal to 100 percent of value is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained up to the settlement date of the letter of credit. If goods imported differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 percent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 20 percent in addition to customs duties levied on the c . i . f. value of most imports. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA the import license and other documentation. Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal require- ments, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise that has not actually passed through customs at the time of payment), pro- vided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without docu- mentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports from neighboring areas3 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; normally, genuine requirements are met, provided that balance of payments considerations permit. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 10,000 a person. For tourist travel by residents, the allocation is So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allow- ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel and travel for medical reasons is So. Sh. 1,000 a trip (So. Sh. 1,500 for Canada, Japan, and the United States). Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out without authoriza- tion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign bank notes and coin. A currency declaration is required from all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the National Banana Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the 3Aden, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Mukawwar Island. 414 exportation of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried f ish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 30 percent of the value of exports is required. There is a 25 percent tax on exports of livestock. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, de- clared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coin; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coin and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977. In accord- ance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Directorate of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (as defined in the Foreign Investment Law), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 30 percent a year of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 percent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption from import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding five years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents, and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resident employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permis- sion is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EC countries, and imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent du ty. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement February 27. Foreign exchange receipts of embassies, oil exploration companies, and consulting companies and transactions in nonresident accounts denominated in Somali shillings were removed from the list of items to be transacted at the appreciated exchange rate. July 1. The dual exchange rate system was un i- fied and the Somali sh i l l ing was pegged to the SDR at the rate of So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1 with margins of ± 2.25 percent around its fixed relationship to the SDR. The midpoint exchange rate was set at So. Sh. 15.207 = US$1, and remained at that level through December 31, 1982. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts February 21. The Central Bank issued new regula- tions pertaining to external accounts in U .S. dollars opened by Somali livestock exporters. Such accounts could be credited w i th amounts corresponding to the difference between the export price listed in the letter of credit and the actual sale price in the foreign market; they could also be debited for import payments, for invisible payments, for personal purposes; and for transfers to other external accounts. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of South Africa is the South Afr ican Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commercial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. On December 31, 1982 the commercial banks' spot rates for the U .S. dollar in transactions with the pub l ic were US$0.9295 buying and US$0.9290 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain l im i ta t ions, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations.2 The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U .S. dollars only for private sector transactions; such cover is given daily to authorized dealers based on an interest rate differential between the U .S. dollar and the rand. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a freely floating "financial" rand (see footnote 1), wh ich is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other invest- ments in South Africa owned by nonresidents (other than former residents of South Africa), capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The rate for the f inanc ial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1982, the discount was about 18.66 percent, the middle closing rate on December 31 was US$0.7575 per R 1. South Africa forma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund 's Articles of Agreement, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as inc lud ing South West Africa), Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these form, w i th the Republic of South A f r ica, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Trea- sury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its licensing powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Import and Export acting on behalf of the Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Tourism. Ex- change for licensed imports is made available by the 1 Effec t ive February 7, 1983, in a major l ibe ra l iza t ion of exchange controls, the South Afr ican au thor i t ies d isbanded the f loa t ing f i n a n c i al rand market, mak ing all exchange transac t ions e l ig ib le at a u n i f i ed o f f ic ial rate for the rand. 2 Beg inn ing February 8, 1983, forward cover can be provided for transactions by nonresidents on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. 416 authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve B ank .3 Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area consti- tu te the Nonresident Area. The only settlement currency accepted in all countries in the Rand Monetary Area is the rand .4 Settlements by residents of the Rand Mone- tary Area w i th the Nonresident Area, except Botswana and Z imbabwe, may be made in rand to and from a Nonres ident Account and in any specified currency5 and, for outgoing payments on ly, in any foreign cur- rency .6 Settlements w i th Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Botswana Accoun t, in Botswana cu r rency, in rand from a local Nonresident Account to a Bo tswana Account (for outgoing paymen ts on ly ), in rand from a local Nonres ident Account (for inward payments on ly ), or in any specified currency (for inward payments on ly ). Se t t lemen ts w i th Zimbabwe may be made in rand to and from a local Z imbabwean account, in Zimbab- wean currency, in rand from a local Nonresident Ac- count to a Z imbabwean Account (for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand from a local Nonresident Account (for inward payments on ly ), or in any specified currency (for inward paymen ts on ly ). Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Monetary Area are d iv ided into Botswana Ac- counts, Zimbabwean Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, F inanc ial Rand Accoun ts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, f irms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Bo tswana. They may be credited w i th all authorized paymen ts by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South A f r ica of Botswana currency and of any specified cu r rency, and w i th paymen ts from local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ^A u t h o r i z ed dealers can p e rm i t, w i t h o ut Reserve Bank approval, advance payment of up to 33 1A percent of the ex-fac tory cost of capital goods if such is the requ i rement of supp l iers. 4L i l a n g e ni bank notes issued by Swaz i land are freely convertible in to rand, at par, w i t h o ut res t r ic t ion at the Cen tral Bank of Swaz i land, but they are not legal tender in South A f r i c a. The same rules apply to ma lo ti bank notes issued by Lesotho. Checks and other b i l ls of exchange d rawn by Lesotho and Swazi residents for payment w i th in the Rand Mone tary Area mu st be denom ina ted in rand. 5A u s t r a l i an do l la rs, Au s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, Be lg ian francs, Canadian do l la rs, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, Fiji do l la rs, French francs, Hong Kong do l la r s, I n d i an rupees, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese yen, Kenya s h i l l i n g s, Ma lagasy f ranc s, M a l awi kw a ch a, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, New Zea land do l la r s, Norweg ian kroner, Pak is tan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l i n g, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swed ish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda sh i l l ing s, U .S. do l lars, zai'res, and Zamb ian kwacha. 6 Foreign currency is any currency or payment in s t rument for cu r rency other th an a currency th at is legal tender in a coun try in the Rand Mone tary Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder wh i le temporarily resi- dent in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. Zimbabwean Accounts are held by persons, f i rm s, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Zimbabwe. They may be credited w i th all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents, w i th the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Zimbabwean currency and of any specified currency, and w i th payments from local Nonresident or Zimbabwean Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Zimbabwe and other payments due by Zimbabwean residents to South Afr ican residents, for payments to the account holder wh i le temporarily resi- dent in South Africa for short periods, for paymen ts to other local Zimbabwean Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Zimbabwean currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, f i rm s, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, dom ic i led, or registered outside Botswana, Zimbabwe, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited w i th all author- ized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Afr ica of specified currency, and w i th payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South A f r ica. They may be debited for payments to South African residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, that is, by transfer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Zimbabwean Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for paymen ts to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts (see footnote 1) are the accounts of nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emigrants from that Area, to wh ich exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be cred- ited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, exc lud ing former residents of South Africa, and by immigrants w i th in three years of arrival. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for f inanc ial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell f inanc ial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer f inanc ial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account on the ir books to another, on their own books or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (wh ich may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, mun ic ipa l, or public u t i l i ty stocks. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The ma tur i ty proceeds of holdings of five-year nonresident bonds and seven-year, 6 percent Securities Rand Bonds, prev ious ly issued by the Treasury, can be remitted abroad in foreign currency. The local sale proceeds of South A f r ican securities held SOUTH AFRICA by imm igran ts prior to their arrival in South Africa, or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts, with the exception of assets of persons who previously have been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to wh ich exchange control re- strictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the t ime of departure and with the pro- ceeds of any other South Afr ican asset held at the time of departure and subsequen t ly sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South A f r ica, but may be retained on deposit w i th an authorized dealer, used w i th in certain limits for the ho lder's l iv ing expenses wh i le v is i t ing South Africa, or for other specified payments to residents, or be in- vested in any securities that are quoted locally; such se- cur i t ies may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Apart from the items subject to specific import li- cens ing, import licenses are required for 31 broad product categories, wh ich are not interchangeable among groups. All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered w i th the Director of Import and Export. The licenses are va l id for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Bo tswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Ma lawi and Zimbabwe that were g rown, produced, or manufactured in those coun- tries, w i th the exception of sugar from Swaziland and tea from Ma lawi and Z imbabwe. The Import Control Regu la t ions for 1981 distinguish between the fo l low ing broad categories of imports: (1) goods that may be imported w i thout an import license; (2) goods for wh ich licenses w i ll be granted to meet the "full reasonable requirements" of importers; and (3) goods that may be imported on ly under license and for wh ich the precise nature, volume, and value are specified. An importer is au toma t ica l ly granted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the necessary cons ignment documents (proof of importation), and an import license where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except w i th prior approval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 3). W i th certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 6 percent. In add i t ion, there is a surcharge of 10 percent7 affecting about 60 percent of imports. Payments for Invisibles* Au tho r i ty is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without 7The surcharge rate was reduced to 7.5 percent on Janua ry 1, 1983. 8 As part of the r e l ax a t ion of exchange controls on February 7, 1983, fo re ign exchange a l lowances for fore ign travel were subs tan t ia l ly increased, as fo l lows (allowances for travelers under 12 years of age are in paren theses): from an a n n u al rate of R 4,000 (R 2,000) to R 6,000 (R 3,000) for the basic a l lowance; from R 1,500 (R 750) to R 2,000 (R 1,000) in respect of tour ist travel to destinations in a spec if ied region (A n g o l a, Bo t swana, M a l aw i, Mozambique, Zaire, Zamb ia, Z imbabwe, and the Ind ian Ocean Islands); from R 250 to R 500, a day, for general business t r av e l, w i th a rise in the annual l im it from R 7,500 to R 10,000; and for bus iness travel to the specified reg ion, from R 200 to R 400, a day, w i th an increase in the annual l im it from R 3,000 to R 4,000. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA limitation and for others up to established limits. Appli- cations for amounts in excess of these l im i ts are con- sidered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agree- ment was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank, and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsid- iaries are based on profits earned after December 31, 1974,9 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, how- ever, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as exces- sive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or f inanc ial rand, or otherwise held by nonresidents, is freely transferable at the commercial market rate of exchange to the owner's country of resi- dence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for member- ship fees, family maintenance, e tc ., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 4,000 for an adult and R 2,000 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 1,500 for an adult (R 750 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Ma law i, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the Indian Ocean Islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 250 a day, w i th a maximum of R 7,500 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neigh- boring territories mentioned above is R 3,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 200 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take the f u ll applica- ble allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 200, but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take w i th them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Afr ica. These l im i ta t ions on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amoun ts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, re- quire licenses irrespective of destination (w i th the excep- tion of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). 9 This time l im it was e l im ina ted on February 7, 1983. 418 Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons on ly, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United K ingdom, any Com- monwealth coun t ry, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, and the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, other than Botswana, is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Afr ica and surrendered w i th in six months from the date of shipment or seven days from the date of accrual. Exporters may grant credit up to 12 mon ths, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered w i th in seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital™ All inward loan transfers require specific approval,11 wh i le inward transfers through commercial rand for investment in equ i ty capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonres- ident-controlled firms is subject to l im i ta t ion. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 through f inanc ial rand for each shareholder^ to allow South Afr ican residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South Afri- can stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, 10For exchange control purposes, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Monetary Area. Securities are defined as inc lud ing not on ly quoted stocks, shares, deben tu res, and r igh ts but also unquo ted shares in p u b l ic compan ies, shares in pr iva te companies, governmen t, m u n i c i p a l, and pub l ic u t i l i ty stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds or par t ic ipa t ions in mortgage bonds, and national sav ings certificates. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" inc lude any temporary or sub s t i tu te documen ts of t i t l e, such as letters of a l lo tmen t, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 1' Approval is genera l ly g i v en for borrowing abroad w i th a ma tur i ty of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for property deve lopmen t, specu la t ion, or consumer c red i t. Authorized dealers generally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the f in an c ing of South A f r i c an foreign trade and other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries outside the Rand Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities w i th a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any transfers of foreign assets may take place through the medium of financial rand and may be retransferred abroad through the same channel w i th in the first three years after arrival. However, any funds retransferred abroad by means of the financial rand cannot be returned to the Republic of South Africa thereafter through the medium of financial rand. (See footnote 1.) The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be made by the authorized dealers at the commercial rand rate of exchange without reference to the Reserve Bank: trans- fers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on maturity of government, mun ic ipa l, and public u t i l i ty bonds and national savings certificates (except national savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) prior to March 30, 1978 and were held continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; and transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 remaining from the reinvestment of financial rand balances. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance, at the rate for the commercial rand, and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) in the form of f inanc ial r and .12 Requests for capital transfers at the commercial rand exchange rate by emigrants who are disabled or over 60 years of age are considered w i th in the l im it of R 30,000 a fam i ly or R 15,000 a single person. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account. The total net income earned from an emigrant's blocked assets may be transferred at the commercial rand rate of exchange. An emigrant fam i ly or a person can export one motor vehicle, w i th a max imum value of R 20,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a va lue of R 20,000 for each fam i ly, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's posses- sion for a period of not less than one year. The Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by 12 Following the relaxation of exchange controls on February 7, 1983, the capital transfers discussed in th is and the fo l low ing paragraphs are permitted th rough normal bank ing channe l s. SOUTH AFRICA nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances, of current profits earned after December 31, 1974, and dividends declared on profits from trading earned after December 31, 1974, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Afr ica of nonresident-owned securi- ties is permitted, except by emigrants on their departure. There are two ways in which holders of financial rand can repatriate funds from South Africa: (1) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them outside South Africa at a price wh ich may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation; and (2) by selling the funds to another nonresident for foreign currency. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, author- ized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry w i ll be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's return) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Ma law i, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 percent of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Furthermore, after reference and approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to num isma t is ts. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of production. As a special concession, mines may retain approximately one third of their production for the purpose of m in t ing gold coins. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand w i thout a face value, which are legal tender but do not circulate in South Africa; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Changes during 1982 Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The Ministry of Industries, Commerce, and Tourism discontinued the practice (known as the Finance Charges Aid Scheme) of granting specially reduced railroad rates and aid in respect of finance charges to exporters. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Imports and Import Proceeds February 11. A 10 percent surcharge was imposed on imported goods, with the exception of (a) import goods subject to GATT bindings; (b) imports for use by central government departments; provincial administrations and similar public ins t i tu t ions; and (c) imports of certain petroleum products, inc lud ing crude oil, petrol and diesel oil. September 1. The general sales tax, also affecting imports, was raised from 5 percent to 6 percent. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to maintain stability in the exchange market. Official buy ing and selling rates for specified currenciesl arc fixed daily by the Bank of Spain (the central bank), acting in consulta- tion with the authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buy ing and selling rates for bank notes in specified currencies. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at wh ich it settles direct transactions. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U .S. dollar. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions related to commercial operations up to 360 days. Forward cover may be provided to residents for all permitted foreign exchange receipts and for import payments. Forward contracts may not exceed 12 months, and forward purchases and sales of exchange are restricted to curren- cies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market. The terms of the forward contract must coincide with the terms of the commercial transactions that are being covered. The forward position of an individual bank at the close of each day must not reflect a net buy ing or selling position in U .S. dollars in excess of US$1 million; in French francs, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Italian lire, and Japanese yen in excess of US$0.25 million; and in each other convertible currency in excess of US$100,000. In addition, commercial banks can purchase foreign exchange to cover a forward contract six months prior to the maturity of contract. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are for- mulated by an interministerial commission. The M in is try of Economy and Commerce is in charge of administra- tive func t ions connected w i th exchange and trade con- trols, as well as controls over Spanish investment 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Ir ish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs and U .S. dollars. abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financ- ing of trade, and the registration of foreign investments in Spain. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operative functions, in particular, the handling of external re- serves. It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency short-term and long-term loans to residents for nontrade purposes. Contracts relating to technological matters must be registered w i th the Minis- try of Indus try and Energy. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles may be made in any specified currency (see footnote 1), but they are usua l ly made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, as follows: Convertible Peseta Accounts. Following abolition in January 1981 of the A Accounts and B Accounts in pesetas, nonresidents are now permitted to hold Convert- ible Peseta Accounts, balances in wh ich can be freely converted into foreign currency; existing peseta balances in A Accounts and B Accounts automatically become convertible peseta balances. These Convertible Peseta Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency (other than bank notes) sold in the Spanish foreign currency market, w i th authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, w i th accrued interest on such accounts, and w i th transfer from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equivalent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, for cash draw- ings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accounts can be freely established by authorized banks, and balances are not subject to reserve requirements. Balances in Con- vertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the Spanish forward exchange market. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold nonresidents' funds accruing in Spain that are not transferable abroad. Au toma t ic approval is given to open such accounts. Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th (1) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired w i th pesetas from an External Ac- count in Internal Pesetas; (2) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired w i th 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owner;2 (3) interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (4) transfers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (a manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical person); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of urban and rural properties that do not represent investment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (appli- cable to rural properties only if the account holder is of Spanish nationality); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization, and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies may be held by nonresidents; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968, in order to maintain acquired rights. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to a Convertible Peseta Account. Overdrafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens working abroad. The regulations were modified by Royal Decree No. 1222/77. Tourist Accounts. Foreign nonresident tourists in Spain may open ordinary peseta accounts with authorized institutions in an amount not exceeding Ptas 200,000 for an account; such an account must always show a credit balance position. These accounts may be credited with receipts from foreign exchange conversion, with peseta bank notes in the possession of the tourist on entering Spain (a maximum of Ptas 150,000 in each trip), w i th funds from other Convertible Peseta Accounts, and with ordinary pesetas received in Spain by the tourist. Debits on such accounts may be made to cover the tourist's living expenses in Spain as well as payments of the tourist's household expenses. Balances in these accounts cannot be transferred abroad. Nonresident Accounts Relating to Execution of Busi- ness Contracts. Nonresidents must open a peseta account 2 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. 422 in an authorized institution in connection with the execution of business projects for a resident, to facilitate reporting on receipts and payments under such contracts. Such accounts may be credited with working capital brought in by the nonresident contractor and with payments over time by the residents concerned. Funds imported under this arrangement must be converted into pesetas, are non-interest-bearing, and may not be repatri- ated un t il after six months from the entry date. The accounts may be debited with payments by nonresidents for the execution of the project. Balances on such accounts are transferable abroad, after verification by the Directorate-General of External Transactions that the amounts conform to the terms of the contracts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted under the following ar- rangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports (Ministry of Economy and Commerce). Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, and also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries.3 All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts; separate global quotas exist for imports of these same commodities from EC countries. With certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are issued freely. Imports of cotton, certain other agricultural products, and tobacco are state traded. Some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains and raw cotton, may be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transac- tions valued at less than Ptas 0.5 million, provided that payment is to be made within one year. 3The import free list does not apply to Afghan is tan, Albania, Andorra, Bhu tan, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, San Marino, Tibet, U . S . S .R ., and Viet Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the authen- ticity of the transaction. Holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased w i th convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange, or with pesetas released from External Ac- counts in Internal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also freely transferable abroad. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided that the purchase price has been paid in fu l l. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and imports of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made without any supporting documents. For larger payments, declarations to the Directorate-General of External Transactions in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce are required. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is Ptas 80,000 a person a journey, w i th an annual max imum of Ptas 320,000. The authorized banks are free to sell the equivalent of Ptas 200,000 a person for each business trip, with an annual max imum of Ptas 1.4 million, and any amount for travel for education or health care. Travelers may take with them Ptas 20,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. The sale of foreign exchange for amounts in excess of the above limits and for current invisibles not specifically listed requires a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments are freely transferable abroad provided they were not financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to prior licensing by the Direc- torate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks w i th in 15 days of receipt. Certain agricultural products may be subject to an export tax, but this practice is unusua l. Since April 1980 some goods included in a list published by the Directorate- General of Exportation may be exported without a license if payment is made in convertible foreign currency and w i th in six months of export; in th is case, only a declaration before the customs is required. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks w i th in 15 days of receipt. SPAIN Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments. As a general rule, there are no restrictions on foreign capital investments which lead to ownership of up to 50 percent of the capital of Spanish companies, or are related to capital increases in Spanish companies where the foreign participation ratio is not altered. Prior administrative authorization is normally required for foreign investments of more than 50 percent. Special foreign participation ratios and regulations apply to certain specific activities.4 Thus, foreign capital investments are not allowed in defense industries, the news media, and public utilities, while in public service companies foreign capital holdings may not exceed 25 percent. Under Royal Decree No. 6227 1981 of March 27, 1981, investments by foreign residents w i th ordinary pesetas are not considered as foreign investments. Where investment authorization is needed, the process is decentralized, w i th approval from the Council of Ministers needed only when the investment amounts are over Ptas 500 m i l l ion. For lower amounts, authorization is given by the Ministry for Economy and Commerce or the Directorate-General of External Transactions with the participation in some cases of the Foreign Investment Board. The Royal Decree also authorizes Spanish branches of foreign companies to carry out direct investments, subject to the approval of the Directorate- General of External Transactions. Under Royal Decree No. 623/1981, of March 27, 1981, foreign investment up to Ptas 25 million, carried out by nonresidents or Spanish firms with foreign participation, for the establishment of new firms (or the acquisition of branches of real estate) is unrestricted. The Royal Decree also grants general authorization for Spanish companies to effect capital increases debited to free disposable reserves, provided that there is no increase in the percentage of foreign participation. Similar authorization is granted for foreign investment in capital increases for the normal expansion of Spanish companies, without increasing the percentage of foreign participation. Under this Royal Decree, foreign invest- ments w i th in the specified liberalized regime must be declared to the Directorate-General of External Transac- tions (Ministry of Economy and Commerce) for verifica- tion; they may be taken as accepted if there is no response from the latter w i th in 30 working days. Foreign direct investments are also authorized in Spanish companies that are in the process of increasing their capital. This may be effected through the purchase 4 The foreign con tent of inves tment by Spanish companies w i th foreign par t ic ipa t ion is determined in the fo l low ing manner: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 percent, the inves tment is considered 100 percent fore ign; (2) if foreign participation is over 25 percent but equal to or less than 50 percent, the inves tment is considered foreign to the extent of such par t ic ipa t ion; nevertheless, if foreign investors enjoy a position of dom inance, the inves tment is considered 100 percent foreign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 percent or less or if there is Spanish Government participation, the investment is considered domestic. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN of shares or investment in the capital, provided that the company creates 100 permanent jobs, that the foreign currency account shows a positive balance after one year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 percent, and that at least Ptas 100 million is invested in the purchase of shares. Foreign investments may be effected by transferring currencies that are negotiable in the Spanish exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transfer- able under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing technology, patents, or licenses. Profits and dividends on direct investments are freely transferable abroad. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments may be transferred freely. (b) Portfolio investments. Such investments in shares are treated as direct investment. Purchases by nonresi- dents of shares in most Spanish companies are unre- stricted up to 50 percent of the capital of Spanish companies; purchases of bonds are unrestricted. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners with foreign capital. Portfolio and direct investments in nonspecified sectors by nonresident foreigners are not considered as foreign investments. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time or used for further purchases of shares.5 Purchases by nonresidents of bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this paragraph, and the fu ll sales proceeds are transferable. The purchase by nonresidents of bank certificates of deposit requires special authoriza- tion, but nonresidents may freely purchase bonds issued by banks with a maturity of five years or more. (c) Real estate investments. Foreign investment of up to Ptas 25 million carried out by nonresidents or Spanish firms with foreign participation, for the acquisition of branches of real estate (or the establishment of new firms) is not subject to restrictions. Investment of over Ptas 25 million in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is, within certain limits ,6 freely permitted if financed w i th pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts held by nonres- idents. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the 5However, if the purchase was made w i th internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after wh ich he may transfer the liquidation proceeds abroad. 6 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality, if financed with funds imported from abroad, are freely permitted by a general authorization, as follows: (1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 square meters for one single-family dwe l l ing for personal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apartment building, and (3) up to three apartments in a single apartment bu i ld ing. There are separate regulations governing the purchase of business premises (see Royal Decree No. 623/81). 424 change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, rural properties purchased in excess of 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land require authoriza- tion from the Council of Ministers. When Spanish real estate acquired under the 1974 Foreign Investment Act is sold to a resident, the full sales proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed w i th convertible foreign currency or with pesetas from an External Account in Convertible Pesetas. If the initial purchase was financed with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferable. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transfer- able, provided that the purchase price has been paid in fu l l. (d) Bank credit. Spanish firms with foreign partici- pation in excess of 25 percent are authorized to avail themselves of local bank credit up to five times their capital stock; domestic bank credit beyond this limit requires prior authorization from the General Directorate of Financial Policy in the Ministry of Commerce and Energy, unless the excess would only involve a ratio between foreign and local credit equal to or greater than the existing ratio of foreign to local participation in the company's capital. (e) Foreign currency deposits. Nonbank residents are not allowed to hold foreign currency deposits with resident banks, or foreign currency (and peseta) deposits with nonresident banks without prior authorization. (f) Other credits. The granting of loans by nonresi- dents to residents requires authorization by the Bank of Spain. For loans with an average term to maturity of one year or more, approval is granted automatically if the application is not questioned or rejected within 15 working days by the Bank of Spain. Suppliers' credits extended to residents by nonresidents require authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Certificates of deposit issued by banks can only be purchased by nonresidents subject to authorization; long- term bonds of banks (5 to 10 years) can be purchased freely. 2. Outward Transfers (a) Direct investments. Direct investments abroad by residents are permitted freely provided one of the following conditions is met: (1) the share of the Spanish investment is at least 20 percent of the capital of the foreign company; (2) the Spanish investor participates in the management of the foreign company or otherwise exercises an important influence over it; or (3) the foreign company uses exclusively or predominantly technology provided by the Spanish investor. Direct investment projects abroad must be declared to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verifi- cation of authenticity and for statistical control. If no administrative notification is received regarding the project w i th in 30 days of the declaration, the parties ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution concerned may proceed w i th the investment. The invest- ment must be carried out, in principle, w i th in a period of six months. Direct investments in foreign companies leading to the purchase and holding of securities and the purchase of real estate are not liberalized. (b) Portfolio investments. Banks, savings ins t i tu t ions, and insurance companies may purchase foreign securi- ties in foreign stock markets up to 10 percent of the increase in their own resources. In the case of existing establishments, the increased resources are calculated from the date on which Royal Decree No. 2236/79 of September 14, 1979 (providing for the liberalization of Spanish investments abroad) became effective; for new establishments, the calculation is made from the date on which the m in imum legal requirements for subscribed and paid-up capital are effective. Under the same decree, Spanish residents are free to purchase fixed-income securities denominated in foreign exchange and issued by Spanish private and public institutions and by international organizations in wh ich Spain is a member. Acquisition and disposal of such securities must be reported to the Directorate-General of External Transac- tions. The decree was, however, temporarily suspended in August 1982; for a period of six months thereafter, prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce is required to transfer funds abroad for investments in foreign and other financial instruments. All other Spanish investments abroad require prior authorization, which is handled by the Directorate- General of External Transactions if the investment does not exceed Ptas 100 million and by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce in the case of higher amoun ts. (c) Loans. Requests by nonbank residents to grant loans to nonresidents and for suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Beg inn ing in June 1982, requests for the early repayment of loans denominated in foreign currency are subject to a freeze imposed by the Bank of Spain. There has been no experience w i th the issu ing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor w i th short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credits granted directly to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions w i th Spain may, however, be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Furthermore, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed w i th funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Commercial banks are prohibited from establishing short-term swap positions w i th pesetas for more than two days. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Spain. Purchases of gold, silver, and p la t inum ingots are SPAIN subject to a luxury tax of 30 percent, but gold purchased for industrial use is exempt from the tax. Imports of gold are subject to quotas issued by the M in is try of Economy and Commerce. Such quotas are granted to industrial users for purposes of manufacturing jewelry and other articles. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 15. The regulation requiring each bank to have a forward position not exceeding US$1 million and the equivalent of US$100,000 in each other convertible currency at the close of each business day was changed to allow a net position in French francs, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Italian lire, and Japanese yen of not more than the equivalent of US$0.25 million; the limits on forward positions in U .S. dollars and all other convert- ible currencies remained unchanged. In addition, the max imum period in which commercial banks could purchase foreign exchange for the purpose of covering a forward contract was lengthened from 15 days to six months, prior to the maturing of the contract. December 4. The Spanish authorities devalued the peseta against the U .S. dollar by 8 percent, w i th effect from December 6, 1982, resulting in a middle rate of Ptas 127.66 per US$1 compared w i th Ptas 117.45 at the close of business on December 3, 1982. In addition, the Spanish authorities indicated their intention to continue to implement a managed floating rate system which would not run counter to the basic trends in the market and would in no way be used to gain an unfa ir competitive advantage. Imports and Import Payments February 27. The State Gazette published Law 1/1982, wh ich introduced a tax on certain films and new surcharge taxes for f i lms in foreign languages. March 22. The State Gazette published a number of resolutions (dated February 10, 1982) of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, specifying the global quotas for a range of commodities ( inc lud ing explosives, pyrotechnic articles and matches, dextrin and dextrin glues) and setting a period of 30 days for the submission of applications for up to 50 percent of the annual quotas. March 24. The State Gazette published several resolu- tions of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, specifying the global quotas for varnishes, domestic sewing machines and their parts, and color television receivers, and setting a period of 30 days for the submission of applications for up to 50 percent of the annual quotas. For meat preserves, a period of 20 days was given for the submission of applications. March 25. The State Gazette published two resolu- tions of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce w i th respect to the global quotas relating to fru it preserves and miscellaneous products. The total annual value of the quotas was being called and a 20-day period was set for subm i t t ing applications. March 30. The State Gazette published several resolu- tions of the M in is try of Economy and Commerce, 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN concerning EC quotas on a range of products (including certain types of motor vehicles, boats, and ammunition and arms); a period of 30 days was allowed for the submission of applications. March 31. The State Gazette published several resolu- tions of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce concerning EC quotas on another range of products (including tractors, varnishes, lubricating preparations, powder, explosives, pyrotechnic articles and matches); a period of 30 days was allowed for the submission of applications. April 30. Royal Decree 925/1982 was introduced laying down rules and procedures for the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties. Exports and Export Proceeds April 14. The Spanish monetary authorities announced that, by 1986, 2.5 percent of export credits subject to the investment coefficient by commercial banks would be required to be directed toward the financing of exports of machinery and equipment. May 21. The Bank of Spain announced that prior authorization (from the Bank of Spain) would be required to use, as part of the export credit component of the "investment coefficient," credits directed toward financing Spanish direct investment abroad and associ- ated w i th export promotion. Capital March 12. The central banks of Spain and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya agreed to open credit accounts with each other through which all payments for commercial and financial transactions would be settled, with the exception of Libyan interbank deposits in Spanish commercial banks. June 28. The Bank of Spain imposed a freeze on requests for the early repayment of loans denominated in foreign currency. July 5. The reciprocal credit arrangement with Bogota was terminated. August 14. A 1979 decree liberalizing portfolio investments was temporarily suspended; for a period of six mon ths, prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce would be required to transfer funds abroad for investments in foreign bonds and other financial instruments. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U .S. dollar is the intervention currency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is determined largely on the basis of demand and supp ly conditions in the exchange market. The Central Bank determines da i ly the spot buy ing and selling rates of the U .S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions w i th the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U . S. dollar on a spot basis at the middle rate so es tab l ished. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar were SL Rs 21 .3125 and SL Rs 21 .3275, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank provides forward cover only to commercial banks for the ir sales in U .S. dollars on ly. At the end of 1982, the Central Bank provided forward cover up to six months; one-month forward dollars were purchased at the spot m idd le rate, and s ix -mon th forward dollars were at a discount of SL Rs 0.50 against the spot middle rate for US$100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance w i th the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post off ices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee hand les applications re la t ing to foreign inves tment in areas other than those coming w i t h in the pu rv iew of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), wh i ch ad- ministers the Investment Promotion Zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion ( i . e ., Bang ladesh, Bu rma, Ind ia, the Is lam ic Repub l ic of I ran, Nepa l, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and the ir products) must be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts or in the currency of a member of the As ian Clearing Un ion. For settlements w i th all other coun tr ies, paymen ts for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other paymen ts may be made e i ther in the currency of the coun try to wh ich the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an Ex ternal Rupee Accoun t. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currenc ies .1 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (a) nonna t iona ls resident outside Sri Lanka; (b) f i rms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (c) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for th is purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts fo l low ing their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after the ir departure); (d) emigrants; and (e) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (a) and (b ), the cred i t ing of the in i t ial and subsequent deposits ar is ing from inward rem i t tances, and debits for local d isbu rsemen ts may be effected w i thout the prior ap- proval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redes igna t ing of accounts in category (c), credits ar is ing from inward rem i t tances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected w i thout the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for remittances abroad are not perm i t ted. Accounts in category (d) are blocked nonresi- dent accounts. Local debits to such accounts may be effected w i thout the pr ior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require the prior approval of the Department. Under category (e) foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts w i thout the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, u s u a l ly funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and em igran ts. Au thor ized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax re funds, and profits and d iv idends w i thout prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise w i thout the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of such inves tmen ts must be credited to blocked accoun ts. Rem i t tances up to a max imum of SL Rs 200,000 are allowed from these accounts, w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Rem i t tance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is f u l ly transferable after deduction of 1 A u s t r a l i an do l la r s, B e l g i an f r an c s, Canad ian do l l a r s, D an i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f r a n c s, Japanese y en, Netherlands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds s t e r l ing, Swed ish kronor, Swiss f r an c s, and U . S. do l la r s. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned f i lms, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of f i lms in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.2 Such accounts can also be opened by Sri Lankans within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with foreign exchange brought in by them or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these four convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited w i thout exchange control approval for payments abroad or w i th in Sri Lanka in foreign currency, wh i le the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of ten years from the date of arrival of the account holder for taking up permanent residence in Sri Lanka. These accounts are exempt from income and wealth taxes dur ing the period in which the account holder is resident abroad and for a further period of three years after resum ing residence in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may estab- lish a Foreign Currency Bank ing Un i t. These un i ts may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Investment Promotion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresident and to any resident enter- prise having GCEC status. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Un i ts are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohol, newsprint, frozen poultry, and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items, that is, rice, f lour, and wheat grains. Imports of specified items3 are restricted to govern- ment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures apply to certain imports of capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the ap- proval of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, and machinery imports relating to local investment require the prior approval of the Local Investment 2 In deutsche mark, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. 3 These include Maldive f i sh, dried f ish from Ind ia and Pak is tan, dates, chilies, onions, potatoes, beedi leaves, certain petroleum products, f i lm s, consumer tex t i les, caustic soda, tea chests, ju te hessian, mamoties, and matches. 428 Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, wh ich were abolished for new credits as of Novem- ber 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected only against sight letters of credit. An author- ized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consign- ment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain paymen ts for inv is ib les require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of Indian rupees 2,000 an adult and Indian rupees 1,000 a child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Burma, Ind ia, Ma ld ives, Nepa l, and Pakistan), the U .S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amounts may be a l lowed. In addition, basic allowances of £ stg. 500 for an adu lt and £ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age are allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as the func t ion has been delegated to the banks and travel agents authorized by the Central Bank. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant in s t i tu t ion. Banks and travel agents authorized by the Central Bank can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the cha irman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular trip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for the Indian group of countries and US$90 a day, also up to a m a x im um of 30 days, for other destinations. These l im i ts apply to cha irmen, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$30 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treat- ment abroad if any specialist, whether in government service or in private practice, certifies that equally effective treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. In addition, a monthly l iv ing allowance may be granted up to the equivalent of £ stg. 130 for an adu lt and £ stg. 65 for a child under 12 years, in the case of the Ind ian group of countries; the corresponding amounts for other coun- tries are £ stg. 500 and £ stg. 250, respectively. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution already used the basic a l lowance may be released without prior approval in amounts up to Indian rupees 750 for the Indian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscriptions and payments to international tourist or- ganizations. Payments for other types of travel allow- ance require prior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange and passage money for educational purposes at a recognized un ive rs i ty or technical institute at undergraduate or postgraduate levels, or for specialized technical or professional train- ing, is allowed by authorized dealers. Foreign exchange is made available up to Indian rupees 3,600 a year for postgraduate students and Ind ian rupees 3,000 a year for undergraduate students in the Indian group of countries, and £ stg. 1,500 a year for postgraduate students and £ stg. 1,200 a year for undergraduate students in other countries, in addition to actual fees and allowances for books. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a max imum of two thirds of their gross monthly income. Other foreign nationals are per- mitted to remit £ stg. 165 a month for a w i fe, £ stg. 180 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 160 for a girl in a senior school, £ stg. 125 for a boy in a jun ior school, and £ stg. 115 for a girl in a jun ior school, up to a m a x im um of one third of the gross mon th ly income of the parent; any excess of the total of such remittances over one third of gross monthly income is treated as an anticipatory transfer against the expatriate's entitlement to remit assets at the time of repatriation. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may rem it up to two thirds of their mon th ly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third when the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of the ir monthly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the c . i . f. va lue are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered w i th the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts w i th credit balances ou ts tand ing as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles w i thout the prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, w i thout prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional in s t i tu t ion s, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances and rem i t tances of d iv idends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose f inanc ial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they SRI LANKA relate to the year of application, do not include undis- tributed profits from previous years, and do not include transfers from reserves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors con f i rm ing that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to wh ich it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remittable profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of nonresident partners) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate con f i rm ing that the beneficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule ind ica t ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For f inal profits, subm iss ion of the fo l low ing documents is required: (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to wh ich the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors con f i rm ing that the remittance represents the f inal installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (c) a compu ta t ion of the rem i t tab le prof i ts, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Rem i t tances of in ter im d iv idends can be made pro- vided that the fo l low ing documents are submitted: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to wh ich it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an in ter im dividend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; and (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amoun ts due to them. The remittance of a f inal dividend requires the submission of (a) an aud i ted copy of the company 's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to wh ich the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors con f i rm ing that the rem i t tance represents dividends only for the period to wh ich it relates; and (c) the documents listed in (3) and (4) required for the remittance of interim d iv idends. Resident nonnationals may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts w i th domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 w i thout prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic un it of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Bank ing U n i t. The accounts may be curren t, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are l im i ted to inward rem i t tances and to amoun ts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to paymen ts in foreign currency con- verted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the t ime of entry. Unspent 4Deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde r s, pounds s te r l ing, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Sw iss f ranc s, and U .S. do l la r s. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresi- dent travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency, provided that the Customs Declaration Card indicates that at least the equivalent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coin not exceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 for children under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries with which Sri Lanka maintains bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A number of specified items require prior licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation has control of exports of gems and jewelry. Exports of gems by the private sector require prior approval, and the Corpora- tion handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be collected, usually w i th in six months of the date of shipment, except in the case of tea exports to London auctions when the prescribed period is four months. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Un ion. Inward remittance of foreign exchange proceeds from exports of US$50,000 a transaction and above requires prior ap- proval by the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, inc lud ing currency notes and coin. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permitted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in w i thout restriction. Inward remit- tance of foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles of US$50,000 a transaction and above requires prior ap- proval by the Controller of Exchange. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects wh ich are specifically approved by the Government or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of investments in approved projects other than investments made from blocked accounts may be 430 repatriated, along w i th capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad but may be reinvested w i th the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are ap- proved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special facilities for remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Ex- change equ iva lent to £ stg. 500 an adult and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in f u l l, or up to £ stg. 100 a mon th, inc lud ing pension and other income, subject to submission of an income-tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they or ig ina l ly brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and Ind ia, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Central Bank. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement November 10. The Central Bank discontinued the quotation of buy ing and selling rates for the deutsche mark, French f ranc, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pound sterling and continued to determine the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on a daily basis. Imports and Import Payments March 18. Imports of newsprint and frozen poultry were made subject to prior licensing. Proceeds from Exports and from Invisibles April 12. All inward remittances of foreign exchange proceeds amounting to US$50.000 a transaction or above were made subject to prior approval by the Controller of Exchange before encashment or crediting of such proceeds. SRI LANKA 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 7982,) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LSd 1 = US$0.7692. On December 31, 1982 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank) were LSd 1.29610 and LSd 1.30390, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies' are posted, w i th daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for these currencies against the U .S. dollar in New York. There are two exchange markets: the official market, which handles essential imports and official transactions in invisibles and a free market operated by authorized foreign exchange dealers, in which the exchange rate is allowed to f luc tua te and in which nonessential imports, travel, most private invis- ibles, and certain capital transfers are transacted. During 1982 the exchange rate in the free market has ranged between LSd 1.20 per US$1 to LSd 1.85 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, w i th the assistance of the authorized banks. Only dealers authorized by the Bank of Sudan may deal in foreign exchange in the f luc tua t ing free market. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Cooperation, Com- merce, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses pertaining to transactions in the official market must be validated by the Bank of Sudan; registration forms pertaining to transactions in the f luc tua t ing free market are validated by commercial banks. Official import payments and other foreign payments are ap- proved w i th in the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in coordination w i th the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Cooperation, Supply, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egyp t, w i th wh ich Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convert- ible currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline, Suez Canal dues, and 30 percent of the savings of Egyptian teachers working in Sudan must be made in convertible currencies, wh i le all other payments are settled through the bilateral account. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are free to hold foreign currency in cash, or in foreign exchange accounts with local banks, or in the form of convertible accounts denominated in Sudanese currency. However, no internal dealings in foreign currency, inc lud ing the transfer of personal possession of foreign currency between persons or its use in settle- ment of local transactions, is permitted, except through authorized banks or authorized foreign exchange dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports are financed from four sources according to category: (1) from the Bank of Sudan for essential imports; (2) from commercial bank resources only for certain other com- modities; (3) from either commercial bank or private resources; and (4) from private resources for all other commodities. Import licenses are issued according to these categories. Petroleum products are imported only by a state agency. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Coopera- tion, Commerce, and Supp ly, but for those goods that are imported through the official market the licenses must be validated by the General Administration for Foreign Exchange. For imports that are financed from sources other than the Bank of Sudan, the licenses must be validated by commercial banks. Import insurance normally must be taken out w i th local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 percent of the c. & f. value, payable before validation, if the import is financed by commercial banks. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usua l ly requires a cash margin of 40 percent. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 percent margin deposit must be made. A stamp duty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each transfer in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 percent and a defense tax of 10 percent ad valorem. There are arrears on payment for imports. 'Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Kuw a i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .A .E. dirhams. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require approval from the General Administration for Foreign Exchange, but 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payments for interest, commissions, and travel allow- ances require only the approval of commercial banks. Remittances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 360 a person a year), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,680 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in Aus tra l ia, Canada, Japan, and the United States is exempt from this ce i l ing), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of LSd 300 a person a year. Foreign exchange for travel to countries other than Egypt must be acquired from sources other than bank resources. Ex- change for travel must be purchased at the f luc tua t ing free market exchange rate. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel or South Afr ica. Egyptian teachers are allowed to remit in convertible currency 30 percent of approved bona fide savings and the remainder in clearing dollars. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable for virtually all payments for invis- ibles. The duty is LSd 5 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for foreign exchange for business travel; LSd 2 on applica- tions for foreign exchange for tour ism; and from LSd 0.25 to LSd 1 on applications for remittances for other purposes. There are arrears on certain payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of cotton, gum arabic, and livestock, all exports require a license. Exporters must subm it an export form to and obtain approval from an authorized commercial bank. All commodities are subject to m in imum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated to the bank ing system w i th in four mon ths from the date of shipment; w i th the exception of proceeds from cotton exports, the commercial banks are allowed to retain 50 percent of export proceeds for import f inanc ing (for cotton exports, the retainable proportion of proceeds is 25 percent). The balance must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on de l ivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usua l ly specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by pub l ic sector en t i t ies. Exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supp ly reasons. Exporters and export-oriented indus tr ies are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds for purchases of goods and services abroad provided that such pur- chases are for purposes directly related to the export business. Certain pub l ic corporations engaged in pro- SUDAN v id ing services to nonresidents are also permitted to retain a portion of their foreign exchange receipts for their operations and on conditions determined by ex- change control regulations. Retained foreign exchange must be kept w i th local banks and is required to be sold to an authorized dealer if not utilized w i th in a specified period. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open ac- counts denominated in Sudanese pounds or foreign exchange accounts by remittance of foreign exchange wh ich is converted at the f luc tua t ing free market rate. Retransfer abroad of such amounts is freely permitted. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for purchases in duty-free shops in Sudan. Residents are allowed to keep foreign exchange from sources other than export proceeds or income from tourism; such foreign exchange can be kept in foreign exchange accounts w i th local or foreign banks. Receipts from invisibles other than tourism may be retained in foreign exchange accounts. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coin of other countries, but the importation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is forbidden. Travelers entering or leaving Sudan must report on off ic ial forms the extent of their foreign exchange holdings. Departing travelers must provide evidence at the departure port that foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 was acquired through an authorized bank, a licensed exchange dealer, or had been reported on an off ic ial form prior to entry into the Sudan. Capital Incoming foreign capital for specified investment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. All new investment is converted at the official market rate of LSd 1 = US$0.7692. Emigrants of Sudanese na t iona l i ty may on departure transfer up to the equ iva lent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon f inal departure from Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. However, such transfers must be made from sources other than commercial bank resources. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for num i sma t ic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domestically produced gold. With these excep- t ions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes During 1982 Exchange Arrangement June 27. Maximum buy ing and selling rates of LSd 1 = US$0.8850 and LSd 1 = US$0.8606, respectively, were established for dealings in the free market. August 25. The buying and selling rates established on June 27, 1982 were abolished. November T5. The official exchange rate for the Sudanese pound against the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, was changed from LSd 1 = US$1 .11 to LSd 1 = US$0.7692, representing a devaluation of 30.7 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 17. Authorized commercial banks were re- quired to execute import licenses issued by the Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supply by type of commodity and source of finance. For this purpose, three sources of finance were identified, as follows: (a) goods to be financed from commercial bank sources; (b) goods to be financed from commercial bank sources or private sources; and (c) goods to be financed solely from private sources. Specific commodities were assigned to each category of finance. Proceeds from Invisibles May 15. Travelers entering or leaving Sudan were required to report on official forms the extent of their foreign currency holdings. Departing travelers were required to provide evidence that any foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 had been acquired through an authorized bank or licensed exchange dealer, or had been reported on an official form prior to entry into Sudan. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currenciesl are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U .S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned in Amsterdam and the central rate for the U .S. dollar in Suriname, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Suriname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, wh ich has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of the Ministry of Transport, Trade, and Industry to issue import and export licenses and has empowered the Central Bank to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current pay- ments without requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange w i thout the submission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they mus t, in general, be made in convertible currencies,2 although payments to and from 'Deu tsche mark, French francs, Ne ther lands guilders, and pounds s ter l ing. 2Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian sch i l l ing s, Barbados dollars, Be lg ian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, East Carib- bean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian l i re, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U .S. dollars. the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether- lands Antillean guilders or Suriname guilders. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U .S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. Transfers of up to Sf 1,500 a month may be effected under a general permit, and additional amounts may be trans- ferred under a special permit. Nonresident guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad or w i th the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Private imports of automobiles are restricted to authorized dealers. Imports of a few other commodities are pro- hibited from non-EC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in EC countries; these include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered m i lk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furn i ture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when supplies are not available in Suriname. Another group of commodities is subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefab- ricated wooden houses, certain types of women's wear and certain other garments, certain women's footwear, and certain wooden or cane fu rn i tu re. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, certain construction materials, and furn i ture that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons, but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. A government agency, the Suriname Central 3 However, two specified m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for the ir indus tr ial ac t iv i t ies in Suriname, provided that they pay for their imports from the ir own foreign exchange holdings. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple foodstuffs. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as an authorization for payment, exchange being made available upon presenta- tion of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. A license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c . i . f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth); up to Sf 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sf 300 a year for each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sf 300 a year on any one beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sf 200-300 a month for the support of each member of the remitter's own family in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands, subject to a limit of Sf 60O-900 a month for a family unit (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sf 750-2,500 a person for each trip (50 percent of these amounts for children under 14 years), depending on the destination;4 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign bank notes is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sf 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign bank notes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sf 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is du ly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most commodities are issued freely, provided that the exporter 4Sf 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Gu iana, and Venezuela; Sf 750 for Guyana and French Guiana; Sf 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezue la; and Sf 2,000 for the rest of the world. 436 undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only w i th the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency w i th their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of the f .o .b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency w i thout limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender on return to Suriname any foreign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of Sf 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents w i th foreign capital after J u ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred w i th in three years; otherwise, they are con- sidered to have become part of the f i rm 's working capital and may only be transferred in annual installments of 20 percent. An Investment Law provides additional incen- tives for private investment. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on application for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sf 25,000. For estates of more than Sf 25,000, fur ther annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of fam i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating fam i ly is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released w i th in ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries5 Surinamese corpo- 5B e l g i um, Canada, France, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, I ta ly, Luxembou rg, Ne the r lands, Ne the r lands An t i l l e s, Un i ted K ingdom, and Un i ted States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Ex- change Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. The Central Bank, however, permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad; in addition, banks have received a general license to place abroad at short term U .S. dollars corresponding to balances in nonresident U .S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sf 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms, or at Sf 1.80 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 percent and an average gold content of 94CXiooo.6 Authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. Two kinds of gold coin, one with a face value of Sf 100 and the other Sf 200, are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for 6These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. SURINAME numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coin are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold orna- ments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The import regime was tightened as follows: (a) imports of specified consumer goods, including certain types of footwear, were prohibited; (b) quotas were introduced on imports of certain garments; and (c) the list of import items handled by the public central import service was expanded. In addition, a Swiss firm was contracted for preshipment inspection of selected import bills. May 6. The license fee levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports (including gold) into Suriname was increased from 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 = R 1. Exchange rates for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the floating middle rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling margins, as in South Africa, are held within 0.25 percent (US$0.0029) of the middle rate. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates were US$0.9290 and US$0.9285, respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U .S. dollar, and for the Kenya shilling and the Zambian kwacha, based on their relationship to the SDR. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle, these are not controlled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods directly from countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. JOn February 7, 1983 Swaziland abolished the freely floating financial rand market and liberalized travel allowances and emigration regulations. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries is E 1,500 an adult and E 750 a child, a year; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries is E 4,000 and E 2,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring coun- tries, the basic annual allowance is E 3,000 a person at rates not exceeding E 400 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are E 7,500 and E 250, respectively. A higher basic allowance can be obtained for business and medical travels.2 To use credit cards outside the Rand Monetary Area, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to departure; the maximum foreign exchange cost that can be incurred through the use of one or more credit cards is limited to 50 percent of the approved travel allowance and is counted as a part of such allowance. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. * Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 2 As part of the changes introduced on February 7, 1983, the annual limits on foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel were increased as follows: (a) for tourist travel to neighboring countries, from E 1,500 to E 2,000 an adult and from E 750 to E 2,000 a child; (b) for tourist travel to other countries, from E 4,000 to E 6,000 an adult and from E 2,000 to E 3,000 a child; (c) for business travel to neighboring countries, from E 3,000 a person (up to a maximum of E 200 a day) to E 4,000 (up to a maximum of E 400 a day); and (d) for business travel to other countries, from E 7,500 (up to a maximum of E 250 a day) to E 10,000 (up to a max imum of E 500 a day). 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In construct- ing the index the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus imports) during 1972-76 and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stock- holm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index, with the exception that the weight of the U .S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1977-81): U .S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Belgian franc Italian lira Japanese yen Swiss franc Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 17.4 16.9 13.1 9.2 8.9 7.4 5.6 5.1 3.7 3.6 2.7 2.4 1.7 1.2 1.1 100.0 The index value of 132 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on October 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U .S. dollars, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 30, 1982 were SKr 7.2935 and SKr 7.2955, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. They may also purchase foreign currencies, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). They may sell foreign currencies, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to an External Kronor Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions in foreign currencies against Swedish kronor covering current and authorized payments for (1) unlimited periods in respect of receipts on the one hand, and payments for imports, fre igh t, and charter services on the other; (2) periods not exceeding 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports; and (3) 6 months in respect of other payments. Forward transac- tions may be concluded only to cover payments for which an agreement exists. However, export firms, when tendering, may make forward sales of settlement on the envisaged date of payment or on the expiry date for tendering. A bank may not credit a customer with any profit on canceled forward transactions. Under specified conditions, Swedish residents who have raised loans in foreign currency may buy forward the currency of the loan against another foreign currency. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks, forward, any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may buy from or sell to foreign banks, on a forward basis, any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor for a period not exceeding 12 months. Such transactions with foreign banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Governing Board of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments (as defined in Sweden's ex- change control legislation) are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through an author- ized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Ac- counts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad. These accounts may be credited with transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign countries by resi- dents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for authorized payments to resi- dents of Sweden, and they may be converted into any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents after emigrating. The accounts may be credited with amortiza- tion payments on loans granted before emigration or granted with funds in Restricted Accounts, inheritances, and legacies due to the account holder, interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holder. The sale of unlisted Swedish shares, however, requires authorization. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; maintenance ex- penses of the account holder and his family; minor mer- chandise purchases; real estate; taxes and other official charges; gifts to, and for the support of, persons domi- ciled in Sweden; amortization and interest payments on loans raised by the emigrant before emigrating; loans to residents (provided that repayments are made to a Re- stricted Account); purchases of Swedish bonds, denomi- nated in Swedish kronor, and of listed Swedish shares provided that such shares are deposited with authorized Swedish banks and provided that in the event of resale the proceeds are recredited to the Restricted Account. Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with author- 1 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. Payment of interest on such accounts is allowed for up to 60 days, provided that the funds so deposited remain on deposit for at least seven days. 440 ized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from External Kronor Accounts, or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any other Foreign Exchange Account or to External Kronor Accounts. Balances on Foreign Exchange Ac- counts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kronor in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries, wages, and other remunerations of persons sent abroad from Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The accounts may be opened with authorized banks without prior determination of residen- tial status. However, residents may use the funds on these accounts when abroad only for maintenance ex- penses and purchases for personal use, while a nonresi- dent may use such funds freely abroad and for authorized payments in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malay- sia, Malta, Mauritius, Pakistan, the Philippines, Por- tugal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwant, Thailand, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of rubber boots from any country other than member countries of the EC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and imports of specified textiles and garments from any source other than EC or EFTA countries (with the exception of Portugal), as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the condi- tions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an ex- change control permit is required. Importers are per- tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mitted to accept foreign suppliers' credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles2 The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad that are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 3,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of an amount in excess of SKr 3,000, or are made repeatedly, for a purpose that the banks are not authorized to approve, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 3,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a person a trip in Swedish and foreign bank notes and coin and other means of payment; if they wish to stay abroad for at least four weeks, they may acquire and take out foreign exchange up to SKr 12,000 a person. Applications to the Riksbank for additional amounts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate up to SKr 50,000 a person a year for studies abroad, if documentary evidence confirming the studies is presented, and up to SKr 75,000 for purchase of imports of goods for personal use. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Swedish residents while abroad may open accounts abroad, provided that such accounts are closed at the termination of such a stay and that the amount on the closing date is returned to Sweden. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely foreign bank notes and other means of payment which have been acquired abroad or from an authorized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. Without specific permission, not more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish bank notes and coin may be taken out of Sweden. The export of Swedish bank notes in denominations larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, with some exceptions such as ships and scrap metal, are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. Proceeds from exports of goods do 2 The specified limits on minor outward payments and outward payments for life insurance premiums came into effect on February 1, 1983. SWEDEN not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank for Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may for traveling purposes bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coin, and other means of payment. Swedish bank notes, however, may be only in denominations of SKr 100 or less. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents re- quires individual authorization, which normally is granted. Authorization may be conditional on financing by a loan abroad in foreign currency or from an authorized Swedish bank. The loans must have an average maturity of at least five years. Such financing is not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which to a significant extent give rise to exports from Sweden, for investments involving rela- tively small amounts, or for investments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assist- ance. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to but not more than SKr 175,000 for each family. New investment in South Africa and Namibia has been banned since July 1, 1979. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to SKr 200,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank. When Swedish residents emigrate for a limited period, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 200,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity con- tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and per- sonal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credits from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; enterprises are normally permitted to borrow foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank for periods of at least five years on average and for amounts of at least SKr 10 million, with the exception of borrowings by enterprises owned by local governments (for which special arrangements apply) and borrowings for a few other specified pur- 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN poses. With effect from February 1, 1983, loans of up to SKr 100,000 from relatives abroad do not require ind iv idual authorization. The Riksbank permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through borrowing in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank. A Swedish exporter may, without permission from the R iksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance such a credit wh ich he, as a supp l ier, normally provides for not more than six months. The Riksbank normally permits a Swedish exporter to raise a loan in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank in order to finance production costs of major export orders. Suppliers' credits granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank even if the credit serves to f inance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank to finance imports. A Swedish importer may, w i thout permission from the Riksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance his own imports, if suppliers' credits are normally available to him for not more than six mon ths. Borrowing by way of normal suppliers' credit does not require permission, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer (or his bank) credit intended to f inance import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Per- mission for the f inanc ing of the export and import transactions mentioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. AB Svensk Exportkredit is allowed to provide credit in accordance with the ordinances (1981:665 and 1981:357) on financ- ing export credits with state support. Subject to these regulations AB Svensk Exportkredit may, w i thout a permit from the Riksbank, (1) supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank or to a foreign buyer or his bank and (2) effect the granting of credit by an exporter or an authorized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. Residents are not normally permitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Authorized banks may, under a Riksbank permit, raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to resident enterprises for not more than six months for financing imports of merchandise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. Authorized banks may also raise loans abroad in foreign currency for long-term on- lending to enterprises (with the exception of those owned by local governments, for which special arrangements apply, and lending for specified purposes), primarily those that are small or medium sized. Such loans must have an average life of at least five years and the amount in each case may not exceed SKr 10 million. The borrowing enterprise is not required to obtain a permit. 442 Foreign-owned companies in Sweden u sua l ly are permitted to borrow at long term from the parent companies. Genera l ly, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the Riksbank; such authorizations are granted res tr ic t ive ly. However, the R iksbank normally permits companies, local authorities, and authorized banks to (1) redeem the loan in advance by raising a new loan abroad w i th at least the same average l i fe as the rema in ing average l i fe of the redeemed loan and (2) redeem bond loans by purchases in the market not more than n ine months in advance of the redemption date. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- zation, wh ich normally is g iven. Investments below SKr 5 m i l l ion may be who l ly financed w i th domestic credit, as may up to 50 percent of ind iv idual investments beyond that amoun t. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such inves tmen ts, inc lud ing appreciation, requires au thor iza t ion, wh ich is always g iven. In connection w i th nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes, residents may, w i thout authorization, both receive payment from, and grant credit to, nonresidents. This also applies to nonresidents' purchases of real estate for other purposes if they come to live in Sweden. Existing loans connected w i th the estate may, when older than one year, be transferred to the nonresident. Furthermore, banks are permitted to assist in the f inanc ing of the purchase w i th a new loan of up to SKr 50,000. The l im it does not apply to purchases in connection w i th taking up permanent residence in Sweden. Acquisition by foreigners of real estate in Sweden always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of both listed and un l is ted foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a ru le, such authorization is not granted. However, author- ized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies us ing the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made w i th in six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may w i thout authorization buy foreign securities from other residents. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kronor, provided that an aff idav it can be produced showing either (1) that at no time during the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The affidavit is not required when the securities are registered w i th the Securities Register Center. The authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by nonres- idents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities, provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer are the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange holdings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresidents' holdings of kronor in External Kronor Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold and most types of semimanufactured gold. Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commer- SWEDEN cial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement October 8. The Sveriges Riksbank increased the benchmark of the currency index from a level of 111 to 132 (August 1977 = 100). This represented a devalua- tion of the krona of 15.9 percent. Imports and Import Payments April 22. Permission was granted for authorized banks and other authorized agencies to provide foreign ex- change up to SKr 75,000 for the importation of goods for personal use. Payments for Invisibles September 21. The following changes were an- nounced in existing regulations, with effect from Febru- ary 1, 1983: (a) the limit for minor payments which could be made for any purpose was raised from SKr 1,000 to SKr 3,000; (b) the limit on outward remit- tance for life insurance premiums without approval of the Riksbank was raised from SKr 1,000 to SKr 3,000; and (c) the range of transactions which could be effected through restricted accounts was expanded. Capital January 20. The Exchange Control Board decided that funds deposited in foreign exchange accounts could be placed in interest-bearing accounts with other authorized banks. Previously, banks were required to balance such foreign exchange accounts with an equivalent deposit in a foreign bank. September 21. It was announced that, with effect from February 1, 1983, loans of up to SKr 100,000 from relatives abroad would not require authorization from the Riksbank. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank intervenes when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar; the market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1982 was Sw F 2.0050 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of exchange control, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as residents and so are juridical persons (including banks), other than letterbox companies, operating business in either country. However, this rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is involved. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Depart- ment of Foreign Affairs. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of butter and alcohol is subject to state control. The most important commodities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, soap, detergents, and fue ls. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. 'Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign bank notes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign bank notes is free. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formality except that bank credits and other bank lending to nonresidents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permis- sion. Permission is also required for foreign bond issues in Switzerland and for direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues; in the case of foreign bond issues, there is a queuing system together with a limit of Sw F 100 million an issue. Furthermore, all proposed first placements of medium-term negotiable paper (notes) in amounts of Sw F 10 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for authorization. The National Bank will not approve foreign bond issues with an original maturity of less than eight years, while the acceptable range of maturity for notes is from 18 months to eight years with minimum subparticipations of Sw F 50,000. The m in imum amount for subparticipa- tions may be reduced as a result of partial repayments. Early repayments of bonds may, in general, be made only after five years, while advance repayments of notes may be made as early as 18 months after placement but not before one half of the overall maturity has elapsed. Notes must remain deposited for the account of the investor with the issuing bank or a bank that has participated in the issuing syndicate; as noted below, separate provisions apply to the physical exportation or importation of securities. The bank requesting authoriza- tion is required to indicate to the National Bank if notes are to be placed exclusively or predominantly with foreign governments or monetary authorities. The Na- tional Bank reserves the right in such cases to condition its authorization on a special agreement with the foreign authority concerned. Foreign institutions are allowed to participate as sub-underwriters in syndicated Swiss franc credits, provided that they are not mentioned either in the arrangement or publicly. Credits with multicurrency clauses are subject to the same conditions as those denominated in Swiss francs if the Swiss franc is the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution base currency in the credit arrangement. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securi- ties other than notes are unrestricted. In 1982 the banks were not subject to reserve requirements; they are permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits (includ- ing "fiduciary" or "trustee" funds) received from nonresidents. Banks and finance companies are required to report monthly their forward and dealer positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in foreign currencies; a select number of them have to report their dealer position on a weekly basis. Swiss banks may participate in loans with multiple currency clauses. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. The approvals of the cantons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty but are subject to the retail sales tax. An exception is made, however, in certain circumstances for gold or gold coins purchased by foreign central banks. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. An amendment of the Ordinance of Ju ly 2, 1975 about the rules of origin applied for the purpose of tariff preferences to developing countries entered into effect, relaxing various aspects of these rules. March 1. The Swiss scheme of tariff preferences for developing countries was extended for ten years. As new features, the possibilities were envisaged of adapting tariff preferences on the basis of the development level and the financial position of recipient countries, and the extension for a further period of ten years of free entry of handloomed fabrics. SWITZERLAND July 1. The coverage of Swiss scheme of tariff preferences was extended by according duty-free treat- ment to imports of most industrial goods from 31 developing countries and by widening substantially the scope of duty-free imports of agricultural imports from these countries (Federal Council Ordinance of May 26, 1982). The margins of preference on several products from specified countries were also increased. September 3. The customs duty on dessert grapes was temporarily increased until October 10, 1982. October 1. Cumulative treatment was granted to the ASEAN countries in the application of country of origin requirements. Capital April 19. On an experimental basis, the National Bank granted permission for a US$100 million bond issue by the World Bank, thereby permitting a departure from existing regulations of capital exports by (i) having a maturity of seven years, against the officially required minimum of nine years; (ii) permitting foreign banks as underwriters; and (iii) being listed on the London Stock Exchange in addition to Swiss exchanges. (See also entry for Ju ly 1 below.) July 1. The National Bank further relaxed the remain- ing restrictions on capital exports as follows: (a) trade and publicity restrictions in respect of placement of notes were lifted; (b) the minimum maturity for foreign Swiss franc bond issues that could be approved by the National Bank was lowered from 9 years to 8 years, while the permissible maturity range for Swiss franc notes was extended from 3-8 years to 18 months to 8 years; and (c) advance repayment of notes could be made as early as 18 months after placement (as compared with 2 years previously), but not before one half of the overall maturity had elapsed. November 11. Authorization was granted for foreign institutions to participate as sub-underwriters in syn- dicated Swiss franc credits (public placements, notes, and bank lending), provided that they were not men- tioned either in the arrangement or publicly. December 7. It was announced that, except for three cantons, the quotas on the sale of apartments to nonresi- dents would be cut by 20 percent for 1983. Gold January 1. Purchases and imports of gold and gold coins by central banks were exempt from sales tax under certain circumstances. (The tax on retail transactions in gold and gold coins was reintroduced on January 1, 1980.) 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1 in the official market. On April 22, 1981 the Syrian Arab Republic re-established a parallel market along with the official market. A third foreign exchange market (the "tourist market") with a more depreciated rate than the parallel market rate applies to private inward transfers and tourist transactions. The parallel market covers most private transactions, including import payments by the private sector, while the official market covers a large proportion of the transactions of the public sector and specified export transactions of the private sector. The Syrian Arab Republic confines its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar within LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, each US$1 in the official market; on December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, each US$1. Buying and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official market rates, the parallel market rates, and the tourist market rates for the U .S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transac- tions by the Exchange Office. Only authorized commer- cial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commer- cial banks may open letters of credit only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be obtained in any convert- ible currency, and such proceeds may also be received in bank notes denominated in convertible currencies and declared at the border posts of entry. Prescription of 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 446 currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the the U .S .S .R ., Viet Nam, and Sri Lanka, as well as a commercial exchange arrangement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be cred- ited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic; they are not required to present evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Resident nationals wishing to open such foreign accounts are required to present evidence in writing of sources of income abroad. Transfers abroad from these accounts may be made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Permitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel exchange market rate and amounts corre- sponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Egypt, Israel, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state-trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agencies exclusively qualified to import may import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced dom- estically, including some textile products (however, waivers may be granted in order to meet the needs of industry or to obtain supplies of foodstuffs); and (2) all other goods. In principle, imports must come direct from the country of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses which must be obtained by the importer prior to the date of shipment of the goods. Operations of the state-trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budget, these agencies submit documentation on their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy and the customs authorities, and import licenses are automatically issued. Certain imports (not appearing in the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an authoriza- tion to import is granted in response to a written request. For the private sector, importers are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts. A non-interest-bearing advance import deposit is required in order to obtain an import license; the deposits are at rates of 10 percent, 50 percent, and 70 percent of import value. The 10 percent rate of deposit applies to imports of foodstuffs, pharmaceutical and chemical products, and raw materials; deposits of 50 percent are required for imports of construction mate- rials, machinery, and office equipment; and the 70 percent deposit rate applies to all other products. Licenses to import specified items that normally are prohibited (certain luxury consumer goods), up to a value of LS 70,000 in a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade and whose names appear on the list of payers of income tax published by the Ministry of Finance. No licenses are required for imports in this category where the value does not exceed LS 2,000 an item a month. Foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for import payments, provided that a license is obtained, when necessary. There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 percent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there is a unified import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, a maritime transport tax, and a harbor tax). Payments for virtually all imports by the public sector are made at the official market rate by letters of credit; payments for all imports by the private sector are made at the parallel market rate and are all required to be settled by letters of credit. The importer submits the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Commercial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letter of credit. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Insurance for imports under documentary credit and most private sector imports must be effected locally. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the parallel market rate while trade-related transactions of SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC the public sector and certain other specified payments are made at the official market rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign bank notes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 200 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 500 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 2,500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, and Tunisia), the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip. For children ten years old or younger, the allow- ances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above- mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on production of proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 50 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 200 a person for other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transactions in invisibles, as follows: 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international mis- sions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. No approvals are granted for additional amounts. Non- residents leaving the country are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of LS 500 upon showing evidence of having purchased the currency from an official dealer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities also are reserved for govern- ment agencies, state-trading agencies, or specified com- panies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required by which the exporter under- takes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC of exports must be surrendered at the official market rate, except that specified percentages of certain com- modities exported by both the public and private sectors must be surrendered at the parallel market rate.2 The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Certain manufactured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and olives, and crude oil and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 percent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural prod- ucts are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 9 percent plus 3 per mill when exported by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at either the parallel market rate or the tourist market rate, according to the nature of the transaction. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresi- dents. There is no limit on the amount of Syrian bank notes that may be brought into the country by residents and nonresidents. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official market rate, while transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Investment guarantee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, 2 The percentages required to be surrendered at the parallel market rate are as follows (the remainder being at the official rate): textiles (40-70 percent), engineering and chemical products (30-70 percent), and agricultural products (5O-60 percent). and the United States. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not (without prior approval) be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Repubic without restriction. Domestic transactions in gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are subject to licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously im- ported by nonresidents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes during 1982 Prescription of Currency April 3. A bilateral trade agreement (entitled "Com- mercial Protocol of Commodity Exchange") was con- cluded with the Islamic Republic of Iran, providing for a ten-year reciprocal credit arrangement and covering exports of crude oil from the Islamic Republic of Iran and exports of superphosphates, barley, textiles, and glass from the Syrian Arab Republic. May 24. A third foreign exchange market with more depreciated rates than those obtaining in the parallel market was introduced for private transfers and tourist receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments October 9. The advance import deposit requirement for essential commodities (foodstuffs, pharmaceutical and chemical products and raw materials) was lowered from 25 percent to 10 percent of the import value. In addition, the method of settlement for virtually all import payments was limited to letters of credit established with the Commercial Bank of Syria. Exports and Export Proceeds April 24. A number of changes were made in the list of export commodities eligible for exchange settlement through the parallel market, including the addition of military equipment and supplies. (Similar changes were also announced on June 2, 1983.) 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling. On January 20, 1979, the fixed relationship of the Tanzania shilling to the SDR was discontinued and the Tanzania shilling was pegged to a basket of currencies of Tan- zania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tanzania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar. Effective March 8, 1982 the Bank of Tanzania changed the central rate of the shilling against the U .S. dollar from T Sh 8.440 = US$1 to T Sh 9.28435 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the administra- tion of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, virtually all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over exchange operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state-trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a Convert- ible Nonresident Account or Loro Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals temporarily resident in Tanzania, firms, companies or other orga- nizations registered or incorporated outside Tanzania, 'Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenyan sh i l l ings, Malawi kwacha, Mozam- bique meticais, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. foreign diplomatic missions, the United Nations or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania are designated as nonresident accounts. Accounts main- tained by nonresident Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals, who were normally resident in Tanzania and have become nonresidents, are also treated as nonres- ident accounts. Nonresident accounts are broadly divided into two categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tan- zania without any further scrutiny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tanzania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after obtaining ap- proval from the Bank of Tanzania. In total, there are six subcategories of nonresident accounts, namely, Exter- nal, Shipping/Airline, Special, Ordinary, Expatriate, and Unspecified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign na- tionals normally resident in Tanzania, who have pro- ceeded abroad on vacation, employment, or for other purposes may maintain both Special and Ordinary Accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Some imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain goods listed in the Import Control Notice of April 18, 1980, known as Open General License, are not being licensed; they may be freely imported, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods not listed require specific licenses. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods to be imported subject to specific licenses. Although manufacturers are permitted to import many goods directly, the importation of specified goods is restricted to centralized import agencies. Unless specif- ically exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, individual consignments of imports amounting to T Sh 20,000 or above are subject to compulsory preshipment inspection for quantity, quality, and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, acting as agent for the Government of Tanzania. All merchandise imports by the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania unless ex- empted by the Bank of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 percent of the c . i . f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may remit abroad, throughout their period of employment, up to one third of their monthly salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are no longer being granted. Family remittances by residents to relatives abroad have also been terminated. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products dealt with by state-trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon their collection. There is an export rebate scheme under which export- ers may claim rebates varying from 5 percent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. price of exports, depending on the commodities involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently for settlement abroad, as a rule, will not be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to maintain himself and his dependents and has no osten- 450 sible means of livelihood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tan- zania and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- tion) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement March 8. The Bank of Tanzania changed the central rate of the shilling against the U .S. dollar from T Sh 8.440 = US$1 to T Sh 9.28435 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 9.1 percent. November 17. It was announced that a new Exchange Control Manual had been issued, to take effect on January 1, 1983. The new manual superseded all previous regulations and generally tightened the applica- tion of exchange controls and restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners as well as other considerations; the weighting reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in payments. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily m i n im um buy ing and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ma lays ian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U .S. dollars. On December 31, 1982 the middle official rate was B 23.0 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the M in is t ry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to autho- rized agents ( i .e ., authorized banks and authorized companies1 and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments); certain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification .2 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements w i th foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U .S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In princi- ple, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic en t i t ies, international organizations based in Tha i land, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely w i th the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accounts, and w i th funds eligible for remittance 'No authorized company has yet been so de s igna ted. 2No such notification has yet been issued. abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai, national is involved. In addition to the above, the Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency de- posits with commercial banks in Thailand. No restric- tions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restrictions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are subject to licensing. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requ irement that the importer purchase a proportionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$ 1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit w i th an expiry date exceeding n ine mon ths. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 20,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions. Payments for invis- ibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange w i thout supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized persons are allowed to sell foreign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceeding US$250 a person a month. In the case of a foreign tourist wishing to convert baht into foreign currency notes, the authorized person may exceed the above limits. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equ iva lent of US$700 for trips of less than 7 days, or US$100 a day for trips of more than 7 days but not exceeding 20 days for trips w i th visas, or not exceeding 10 days for trips w i thout visas; for business or official travel, US$140 a day is allowed, and additional foreign exchange not exceeding US$60 a day may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. For fam i ly remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amounts above these l im i ts are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. A person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a fam i ly trave l ing on one passport) w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists may take out w i thout prior authorization their own foreign means of payment, or foreign securities, or foreign bank notes and coin of a value not exceeding US$2,000 or such higher amount as they may have declared in w r i t ing upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are subject to l icens ing. Certain categories of exports are subject to l icens ing, and in a few cases to prior approval, irrespective of des t ina- t ion .3 All other commodities may be exported f ree ly, except to South Afr ica. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in value must be made through irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs where shipments of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in value and, w i th minor exceptions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in va lue. Export proceeds mu st be collected and must be sold to an authorized agent 3These inc lude gold, p l a t i n um, precious stones, l i ve ca t t le and other specified an ima ls, coffee, so rghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain fo rms, iron scrap and most forms of iron o ther th an pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Tex t i le exports to certain markets are also subject to l icen s ing. 452 w i th in 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered w i th in 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight b i ll is drawn for collection, 15 days after the due date of a usance b i l l, or 15 days for other methods of paymen t, but in any case not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum ornaments or other articles up to any va lue. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export p rem iums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from inv is ib les must be sold to an authorized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coin or traveler's checks payable in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 2,000 w i thout a permit (or B 4,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport). Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of cap i ta l, inc lud ing p rem iums on l i fe insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- men ts mu st be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign inves tmen ts in Thailand may be accorded preferen t ial trea tment under the Inves tment Promotion Act B .E. 2520 ( issued on Apr il 29, 1977); th is treatment inc ludes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is norma l ly granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai na t iona ls. The contracting of supp l iers' credits abroad requires approval by the Bank of Tha i land. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered w i th the Bank to fac i l i ta te approval of ou tward remittances. The Foreign Debt Committee mu st approve external borrowing by the pub l ic sector. Gold Res iden ts may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewe lry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tu res exchanges are p roh ib i ted. Imports and exports of gold other than jewe l ry are subject to the fo l low ing arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies: commerc ial imports of gold in any form are restricted and requ ire a license issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; for gold b u l l i o n, the M in i s t ry periodically fixes an au thor ized q u a n t i ty of imports. A b idd ing system ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Govern- ment, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of 2 percent of the c . i . f. value of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export du ty or taxes. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments a. Quantitative Import Controls February 12. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports (as well as exports) to the Republic of South Africa. February 13. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports of certain types of block marble. March 10. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports of onions and dried longans. March 17. Certain controlled imports of small com- pressors and accessories for refrigerating equipment were allowed to be imported, provided they were used in final products for re-export. March 24. Imports of earthen tableware were made subject to licensing. April 14. Prohibition was lifted on imports of ju te fiber. June 29. A quota was placed on imports of single cylinder diesel engines (331 to 1,100 cubic centimeters), during the second half of 1982. July 3. Imports of oil plant products were restricted. July 12. A quota was introduced on imports of onions during the period July 13 to September 30, 1982. July 28. Imports of fishmeal were restricted. July 31. Imports of small secondhand liquefied pro- pane gas tanks were made subject to licensing. In addition, the validity period of the quota on imports of onions was extended to October 15, 1982. November 24. Imports of high speed diesel oil were restricted. December 7. Certificates of origin began to be required for imports of coffee and coffee products. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation January 13. A surcharge of 20 percent was imposed for one year on imports of motor vehicle parts for use with tractors. January 18. Exporter-producers of all categories of exports containing imported raw materials were made eligible for import duty rebates. February 10. Import surcharges were modified as follows (for one year): from 15 percent to 20 percent on iron billets, from 30 percent to 20 percent on poly vinyl chloride resins, and from 30 percent to 50 percent on citric acid; in addition, a surcharge of 20 percent was imposed on zinc oxide. THAILAND February 23. A surcharge of 0.5 percent was imposed on all imports subject to import duties on the basis of the Customs Tariff Law, w i th the exception of milk products and oil products. March 17. Import surcharges were modified for one year, as follows: from 10 percent to 20 percent on liquid acyclic alcohols, from 20 percent to 50 percent on canamycin sulphate antibiotics, from 20 percent to 30 percent on canamycin sulphate drugs, and from 20 per- cent to 15 percent on carbon black; in addition, a sur- charge of 10 percent was imposed on coated art paper. June 23. Further changes were made in import surcharges, for a period of one year, as follows: from 20 percent to 10 percent on discontinuous polyester fiber, from 15 percent to 10 percent on partially or pre-oriented continuous polyester filament yarn and polyester and nylon stretched yarn, and from 5 percent to 10 percent on continuous polyester and nylon filament yarn. August 4. A surcharge of 15 percent was imposed on imports of steel wire, rope, and slings made of steel wire rope. September 1. A surcharge of 20 percent was imposed for one year on imports of angles and channel of iron and steel. October 6. A surcharge of 20 percent was imposed for one year on imports of low density polyethylene. October 16. A surcharge of 10 percent across-the- board was levied for one year on all import tariff rates, w i th the exception of "essential" goods, such as milk products and oil products. November 17. Changes were made in import sur- charges as follows: (a) the import surcharge on diesel piston engines was reduced for one year from 20 percent to 5 percent; (b) import surcharges were reduced un t il February 9, 1983 from 20 percent to 15 percent on billets of iron, from 50 percent to 30 percent on citric acid, and from 20 percent to 15 percent on zinc oxide; (c) import surcharges were adjusted for a period of four months as follows: from 10 percent to 20 percent on sorbitol, from 50 percent to 45 percent on canamycin sulphate antibiot- ics; (d) the import surcharge on steel wire ropes and slings was reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent until August 3, 1983; (e) the import surcharge on pickling preparations for metal surfaces was reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent un t il August 31, 1982; and (f) a surcharge of 20 percent was imposed for one year on bleached nonwood pu lp and hardwood pulp with over 65 percent elrepho. December 30. Import surcharges were increased until June 22, 1983 as follows: from 5 percent to 10 percent on continuous polyester and nylon filament yarn, from 10 percent to 20 percent on partially or pre-oriented continuous polyester filament yarn, and polyester and nylon stretched yarn. In addition, the import surcharge on calcium carbide was reduced for one year from 20 percent to 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 7. The rice reserve requirement was reduced. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND January 11. The ban on exports of steel bars, in force for eight years, was lifted. The restrictions on the export of vegetable cooking oil, wood-free paper, newsprint, kenaf paper, and coconut or palm sugar containing cane sugar were also relaxed. January 18. Exporter-producers of all categories of exports containing imported raw materials were made eligible for import duty rebates. February 2. The rice reserve requirement was reduced. February 3. The ban on exports of cement was lifted, subject to the domestic availability of m in imum reserves of 300,000 tons of cement and cement clinker. February 12. Licensing requirements were introduced for exports to (as well as imports from) South Africa. February 24. The export quota for coffee was abol- ished, and permission was granted for coffee to be exported freely. February 25. It was announced that approval from the FTD was not required for exports of tapioca products to the EC; notification of shipments was necessary and volumes were restricted by existing quantitative limits. March 3. Permission was granted for free export of tapioca products up to the limits of the allocated quota, but exporters remained bound by regulations relating to export insurance, minimum export price, and reporting of exports. March 25. Regulations on the export of black matpe were revised. March 26. Exports of orchids were allowed without FTD permission, but Customs Department permission continued to be required. April 1. The minimum export prices for shredded and pellet tapioca were abolished. April 26. Under the quota system imposed by the International Tin Council on exporting members, the quota for Thailand was established at 4,661 metric tons for April 27-June 30, 1982 and 5,044 metric tons for July 1-September 30, 1982. April29. Sugar exports in excess of 15.8 million sacks (100 kilograms) also became eligible for the export bill rediscount facility offered by the Bank of Thailand. May 12. Changes were made in the regulations for rice exports as follows: (a) the rice reserve requirement was abolished; (b) the cash payment requirement for rice exports, announced on October 2, 1981, was terminated; and (c) the requirement that permission should be obtained to export rice in shipments of over 500 metric tons to African countries, Indonesia, the People's Re- public of China, Malaysia, Singapore, South Yemen, and Japan was waived. May 13. Special premiums were provided to regular foreign importers of Thai rice who had bought rice and whose shipments were made within 30 days before the abolition of the rice reserve requirement. May 15. Thailand and Austria signed an agreement governing textile exports, under which only shirts and blouses manufactured in Thailand and accompanied by 454 certificates of origin issued by the competent agency would be allowed to enter Austria. June 9. The conditions for the issuance of export certificates for tapioca products were tightened as total exports approached the EC quota. June 10. Export quotas for tapioca products to the EC were issued for the period June-December 1982. June 14. The conditions regarding the issuance of export certificates for tapioca products for June were further tightened. July 1. Permission was granted for free maize trading for the 1982/83 season. Exporters were required to enter into contracts and guarantee arrangements with the Board of Trade and submit transaction details and payments documents. July 1. The conditions regarding the issuance of export certificates for tapioca products from Ju ly onward were tightened. July 17. New regulations on the export of longans were introduced. August 5. The conditions for the issuance of export licenses and certificates for tapioca products were modified. August 17. Licenses for exports of tapioca products were issued without export certificates. September 1. The control on exports of frozen piglets weighing less than 11 kilograms was abolished. September 3. It was announced that approval from the Ministry of Commerce would not be required for exports of textile products to the United States but Customs Department permission would still be mandatory. September 4. The percentage content of rice or broken rice, bran, or bran meal contained in ready-mixed animal feed exports was allowed to increase. September 17. The Bank of Thailand adjusted the exchange rate for export rediscount facilities from B 20 to B 22 per US$1; in addition, a 10 percent across-the- board increase was imposed on four types of packing credit facility for Thai exporters using the service of Thai-owned ships. September 28. The Sugar Export Corporation was set up to promote export sales. September 30. Conditions regarding the issuance of export licenses and certificates of tapioca products for the period October-December 1982 were specified; in addition, export quotas for tapioca products exported to the EC were issued for the period January-December 1983. September 30. Licensing requirements for rice exports were allowed to increase or decrease by a margin of 5 percent of the amount specified in purchase-sale contracts. October 5. Exports of scrap metals used for making integrated circuits were allowed. October 11. Maize export licenses were granted only to exporters who had been certified by the Board of Trade. October 17. Export taxes on wooden products made of hevea and vegetable plaiting as well as others were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lifted. However, export taxes on other wooden products would be levied again at a lower rate from March 1, 1983. October 22. It was announced that textile visas would be required for textile exports to the United States valued at more than US$250. October 22. Permission was granted for free exports of maize to the People's Republic of China. October 27. It was announced that premiums on exports of all grades of rice would remain until June 30, 1983 at the rates applied on March 26, 1982. November 4. Exports of pine wood were permitted. November 9. It was announced that issuance of ex- port licenses for tapioca products under the January 1- March 31, 1983 quota would be advanced from Novem- ber 22 to November 9, 1982, but that issuance of export certificates would start on January 1, 1982, as previously announced. November 16. Payments by Thai rice exporters to the refund system for Hong Kong rice importers was abolished. November 20. Thailand became a member of the GATT. December 1. Permission was granted for free exports of sweet corn without export license. December 15. It was announced that export certifi- cates would be given to the additional tapioca products using next year's export quotas. THAILAND December 20. The regulations for garment exports to the United States were extended. In accordance with the six-month extension of the Thailand-United States tex- tile agreement. December 28. It was announced that the premiums for exports of raw and white sugar produced during the 1982/83 crop year would be at the same level as in the preceding year. Current Invisibles January I. The exemption of withholding tax on interest payments for foreign loans of all maturities, scheduled to end on December 31, 1981, was further extended to cover all of 1982. October 22. Changes were made in the regulations governing the permission given to authorized agents to approve Exchange Control Form 51 for the purchase of foreign currency for traveling expenses as follows: (a) an increase in traveling expenses from US$80 a day to US$100 a day for pleasure and personal business trips, and from US$100 a day to US$140 a day for official or business trips; (b) a decrease in the max imum traveling period for which authorized banks could sell foreign currency, from 30 days to 20 days; and (c) reduction from US$800 to US$700 in the amount which authorized banks could approve for the purchase of foreign currency covering traveling expenses abroad in forms other than foreign traveler's checks or foreign currency notes. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Mone- tary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, and offices of government minis- tries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 456 Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments in rela- tion to The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited w i th BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, w i th BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and are for commercial purposes. Imports from all other coun- tries require ind iv idual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance w i th an import program estab- lished each year; as yet, however, the program has not been established, and almost all requests for import licenses, irrespective of the origin of the goods are granted. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar cubes, rice, flour, canned milk, soap for household use, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, corrugated iron, and concrete rein- forcement rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities already have been imported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization by the Minister, which is valid only from the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent of each transaction involving capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. 3This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency trave ler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the trave ler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. TOGO Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance;4 beginning June 24, 1981 at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrow- ing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togo- lese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international mer- chanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance; exempt from this require- ment are loans constituting a direct investment, loans 4 Inc lud ing investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad or companies in Togo. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the mainte- nance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 25 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments July 8. Decree No. 82/180 PR/MCT created a new un it (the Togo Alcohol Administration) in SONACOM, with an exclusive right over all imports of alcoholic beverage from foreign countries and on all imports of beverages w i th an alcohol content in excess of 35 degrees Baume from franc area countries. November 19. Circular No. 012/MEF updated the list of goods that may be imported under forward exchange cover. 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currenciesl are also officially quoted, w i th daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of payments for visible imports to the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to South Africa are pro- hibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an ar- rangement w i th the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment w i th respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. From April 7, 1981 the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago no longer repatriates Trinidad and Tobago currency notes from the monetary authorities of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries .4 Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2Und er Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regu la t ions, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3If the business of a trader, f irm, or company invo lves f requent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Accoun t, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account be submitted to the authorities. 4The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nev is, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency5 except South African cur- rency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries w i th which trade is allowed must be received in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account U .S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, w i th the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the CARICOM countries to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts are normally credited with the balance of capital assets of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. Income arising from Blocked Accounts (such as interest and rents) is freely remittable, provided the tax liabilities are settled. Gener- a l ly, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligible for remittance to nonresidents after a period of four years. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. 5A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Belgian f rancs, Burmese kya ts, Canadian do l lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds s ter l ing. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licens- ing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Trade with CARICOM countries is effected through the CARICOM Multilateral Clearing Facility (CMCF). The domestic importer or exporter makes payments or re- ceipts in domestic currency, with corresponding credits and debits recorded for the two countries by the CMCF agent. Foreign exchange settlement is deferred until fixed semiannual settlement periods and is effected in U.S. dollars. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and completely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammu- nition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice, oils, and fats are subject to state trading; rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.6 All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Im- ports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency ar- rangements are complied w i th, foreign exchange is granted without restriction or undue delay, provided the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except with respect to South Africa. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital trans- fers are not involved. For outward remittances of gifts and donations, the commercial banks must obtain ap- proval from the Central Bank. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2,500 a person a year, for business 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 460 travel TT$350 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip, and for health care TT$ 12,000 a year. Allowances for education abroad are TT$8,000 for schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for corre- spondence courses, and TT$700 once every two years for warm clothing. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allowance up to a maximum of TT$1,200 in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$ 1,200 upon showing evidence of having purchased such funds from authorized dealers. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an individual license. These include some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax, which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Purchases of petroleum and petroleum products from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries are aided by the provisions of the CARICOM Oil Facility established by the Government; the facility provides long-term, low-interest loans to finance the increase over the level on January 1, 1979 in the cost of oil imports from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted free ly, and g if ts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are per- mitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in f u l l. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized de- positories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization of sterling securities is per- mitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in k ind, is normally eligible for repatriation provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for investment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a maximum of five years, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the o f f ic ial market rate of exchange or, w i th the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable w i th in four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that coun try. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manu fac tu r ing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected w i th in the framework of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, that is, industries that have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or wh ich are not being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for wh ich there are favorable prospects for fu tu re development. Every pioneer manufac turer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. There are limitations on the extent to wh ich banks may grant finance to nonresident ind iv idua ls and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must ma in ta in the mon th ly average of its net foreign exchange position w i th in a specified quan t i ta t ive ceiling. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. However, the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position must be maintained w i th in specified quan t i ta t ive ceilings. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regulations provide that, except w i th specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an autho- rized bank, (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an authorized bank, and(3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for num isma t ic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the M in is try of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicOM sources are subject to import du ty at 5 percent (preferential du ty) or 15 percent (general du ty ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 percent (preferen- tial du ty) or 25 percent (general d u t y ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Changes during 1982 Payments for Invisibles December 18. A regulation came into effect requiring commercial banks to obtain prior approval from the Cen- tral Bank for outward remittances of gifts and donations. Proceeds from Invisibles January 28. The limit on the amount of Trinidad and Tobago currency notes that residents and nonresidents may bring into the country was raised from TT$50 to TT$200. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1982 the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.09089 and D 0.09180, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.6127 and D 0.6188, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979 forward quotations are provided daily for the deutsche mark, the French franc, and the U.S. dollar.2 The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Directorate of Trade and Licenses of the Ministry of National Economy, which determines, in consultation with the Central Bank, the imports and exports that are to be prohibited or liberalized as well as the imports that are to be subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and the trade agreements with foreign coun- tries. The Directorate, in collaboration with the Central Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of nonresi- dent foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad and, with authorization, in the names of other Tunisian nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than bank notes), with 'Currencies quoted spot are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. In addition, the Central Bank quotes bank note rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan dirham) and for CFA francs, Kuwaiti dinars, Mali francs, Qatar riyals, and U. A .E. dirhams. 2 The forward rates are calculated for periods of one month to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and three months for the buying rates. interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit rates applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credits require prior authorization, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the country of residence of the payer), for transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency from the Central Bank. Such currency may be trans- ferred abroad or remitted in Tunisia to the account holder or to any other nonresident beneficiary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents without authoriza- tion. They may be credited with convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresi- dent, with foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, with authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder, with interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates, and with the proceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of foreign currency to the Central Bank, for transfers to any Foreign Account, for transfer abroad, or for delivery of foreign currency to the account holder or any other nonresident beneficiary. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident customers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior ap- proval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be freely debited for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a family a year; the individual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 for each family visiting Tunisia between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year, provided that the total amount used in any single year does not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may with- draw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holders' parents and offspring residing in Tunisia at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts may not be over- drawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Physical and juridical persons of French nation- ality holding capital accounts may transfer up to D 2,000 of balances belonging to them in each such account as of October 25, 1980. Furthermore, balances outstanding on October 31, 1980 can be used up to December 31, 1983 for the purchase of five-year government bonds, when the amount utilized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven-year government bonds with funds utilized over and above that amount. Interest payments and repay- ments on maturing bonds are transferable through an authorized intermediary. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used mainly by natural persons of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be credited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals em- ployed in enterprises benefiting from certain export incentives under Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonresident foreign enter- prises holding contracts in Tunisia may be authorized to open Special Dinar Accounts intended to cover, totally or partially, their expenses in Tunisia. The Central Bank determines the operational and liquidation procedures for such accounts on a case-by-case basis. Balances in such accounts receive interest at the same rate as sight and time deposit accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such proceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or central bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio manage- ment expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) 464 or his fam i ly up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a family a year; the individual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 a year for each family visiting Tunisia between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the following year, provided that the total amount used in any year does not exceed D 2,000 a fam i ly. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surren- dered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total with- drawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Physical or juridical persons of French nationality holding Suspense Accounts may transfer up to D 2,000 of balances belonging to them in each such account as of October 25, 1980. All other debits to these accounts require the authorization of the Central Bank. Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian natural or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue in dinars of convertible foreign currency transferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Liberalized imports (defined as the items listed in Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters published in Official Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981) require only an import certificate, while all other imports require approval, which may be given within the framework of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods require an import license from the Directorate of Trade and Licenses and the visa of the Central Bank; when issuing the license, the Directorate of Trade and Licenses, if necessary, consults with the appropriate technical ministry. Certain products may be imported from any country (except Israel and South Africa) under special proce- dures, as follows: Certain spare parts and a few other products required by industries may be imported without license against presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer. Liberalized products listed in the notice to importers and exporters published on November 27, 1971 may be imported under an import certificate. This procedure is used for spare parts imported by industry and the hotel trade which are intended for incorporation or utilization in their facilities or for capital goods authorized by the Investment Promotion Agency. All products, except those imported under an import certificate, may be imported under an "annual import authorization," irrespective of the import regime (liberalized, prohibited, or subject to quota) or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution their country of origin. Industries, particularly export- oriented industries and agencies responsible for supply- ing certain essential goods for domestic and industrial use, may avail themselves of this annual authorization. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production process, subject only to a customs declaration. In specified cases, imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for import duty exemptions or reduced rates of import du ty. Consumer goods listed under some 332 tariff items or subitems are licensed only within an overall foreign exchange ceiling set by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Imports of certain goods are licensed in such a manner as to ensure that payment is made within the framework of government loans. Other goods that are subject to government monopoly are imported by a single operator or by public agencies— mainly the Regie Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (matches, playing cards, and tobacco), the Office du Commerce (coffee, tea, and sugar), the Office des Cereales (grains), and the Pharmacie Centrale de Tunisie (drugs). Prohibited imports by such agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, an import license, or an importer's card, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank for all payments that have received proper and prior authorization. Resident impor- ters are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of six months. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved, provided that they are properly documented. These include (1) various payments related to interna- tional trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commis- sions, and brokerage); (2) payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of interest and amortization arising from authorized con- tractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for expenses related to publicity abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for TUNISIA certain other expenses. Natural persons and enterprises producing for export within the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their produc- tion process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be freely used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for children under ten); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equiva- lent of D 250,000 for those studying in Canada and the United States, D 200,000 for students in Western European countries, and D 140,000 for those in other countries. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A foreign national employed under contract may transfer up to 50 percent of his net wage or salary without limit if his family is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a maximum of D 150 a month if his family lives in Tunisia .3 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits specified in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 percent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian dinar bank notes or coin is prohibited. Unless central bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic bank notes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 percent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100, if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V in, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 10 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days after shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Resident exporters may sell forward for a maximum term of three months, through authorized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the proceeds from their merchandise exports. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts de- nominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exc lus ive ly for export. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA are 4 percent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after sh ipment of the merchand ise, and 6 percent if repatriation occurs w i t h in 30 days fo l low ing sh ipmen t. Hotel owners may credit to such accounts up to 4 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized inter- mediaries may grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises e l ig ib le under Law No. 72-38. Resident manu fac tu r ing indus tr ies that produce exc lu s ive ly for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72- 38 may arrange to credit 2 percent of the ir repatriated convertible currency export proceeds to Bus iness Travel Accounts in Convertible D inars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises ( i . e ., enterprises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 percent through the import of convertible currencies) produc ing exc lu s ive ly for export are exempt from the requ irement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or proceeds from inv is ib les received from foreign countries. However, there are certain EFAC fac i l i t ies for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers w i sh ing to re-export the equ iva lent of over D 500 mu st make a currency declaration upon en t ry. The import of Tun is ian d inar bank notes and coin is proh ib i ted. Capital All nonresidents who w ish to invest in Tun is ia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tun is ian au thor i t ies in order to be able to transfer the pr inc ipal of, and current earnings f rom, such inves tmen ts. Foreign inves tment in Tun is ia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Inves tment Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 81-56 prov id ing incen t ives for invest- ment in manu fac tu r ing indus t ry and for indus t r ial decen- tra l iza t ion. These inc lude a numb er of tax fac i l i t ies as well as a guarantee of the r ight to repatriate the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or l iqu ida t ion, even if th is amount exceeds the amount in i t i a l ly invested in foreign currency p lus the earnings on that capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises, inc lud ing an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76- 63 provides for the es tab l ishment in Tun is ia, subject to prior approval by the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign f inanc ial and bank ing ins t i tu t ions conducting business w i th nonresidents. However, these ins t i tu t ions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident companies upon authorization from the Central Bank. Such ins t i tu t ions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any 466 of the ir funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment and working capital requirements of enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the fo l low ing: 50 percent of their assets (subject to a ce i l ing of D 3,500) for those who left Tun is ia before August 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after December 31, 1974; D 15,000 for those leaving Tunisia after December 31, 1978; and D 25,000 for those of French na t iona l i ty residing and working in Tunisia as of October 25, 1980 and who subsequently retired and left Tun i s ia permanen t ly after that date. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds from inheritances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up w i th central bank ap- proval from nonresidents is freely transferable. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coin are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require jo int authorization by the Central Bank and the M in is try of National Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are e l ig ib le to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 9. A decree was issued amending the applica- tion of Law No. 76-18 (1976) on foreign trade and paymen ts. The changes included (1) elimination of certain import documents that were previously required for import from French Franc Zone countries, and (2) classification of the import regime into (a) import certificates applicable to a revised list of liberalized imports, (b) import licenses in the case of prohibited products or products subject to restrictions, and (c) import controls applicable to certain other products used in specified sectors. A revised list of liberalized imports was also issued. Capital December 31. As part of Law No. 82-91 (The Finance Law for fiscal year 1983), the following changes were made in existing regulations: (a) Article 97 replaced paragraph 3 of Article 11 of Law No. 81-56 (June 23, 1981), by, inter alia, providing specified incentives for manufac tur ing and industrial decentralization; and (b) Article 119 extended to December 31, 1983, the period dur ing wh ich holders of Capital Accounts could subscribe to specified government bonds. 4 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy by which exchange rates for the lira are adjusted from time to time. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also prepares the import programs. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for im- ports, including commodities on liberalized list II, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry; for the public sector, such exchange allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional orga- nizations (the Exporters Un ion, the Chambers of Com- merce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Com- merce; export licenses are issued by this M in is try, wh ich may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with wh ich Turkey has bilateral payments agreements' are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Romania and with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U .S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe2 must be received in the currency of a country in this group. Nonresidents as well as resident juridical persons are no longer permitted to open, or to add to, demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Turkish liras and that bear an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are pro- 'Is lam ic Republic of Iran. 2Aus t r ia, Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Ger- many, I ta ly, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, and United Kingdom. hibited, except w i th the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, wh ich are valid for 6 months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within 6 months and 20 days. In exceptional cases, the validity of import licenses is extended by a period not exceeding 12 months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corpo- rate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when granting such certificates. Exporters, mine operators, shipowners, bu i ld ing contractors who have undertaken the construc- tion of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manufacturers are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualifica- tions is issued by the respective public authority, that is, the Chambers of Commerce and of Industry, the Export- ers Un ion, or the Ministry of Tourism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in three categories of liberalized imports, list I, list II, and the Fund list. There are no l im i ts as to either value or quan t i ty of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely and applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to authorized banks, which transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government department is required. Procedures for importation of goods under the Fund list are the same as for list I; however, for administrative purposes the Fund list and list I are kept separate, as goods on the Fund list are subject to special import levies determined from time to time by the Money and Credit Council. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of the three lists may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. The lists apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral agreements;3 goods not included in these three import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters 3 When permitting imports of goods from countries other than the payments agreement countries or member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Ministry of Commerce takes into account the balance of trade and payments w i th these countries. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY of credit, documents, or goods ( i .e ., upon customs clearance). For payment against letters of credit or documents, all importers (with the exception of govern- ment departments) are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are transfer- red to the Central Bank by the authorized bank within five days. For payment against goods, 20 percent of the local currency counterpart of the value of the consign- ment has to be deposited at the time of application for the import license and the balance at the date of customs clearance. Importers are formally required to effect the relative foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and within two months from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Exchange rate adjustments for officially quoted cur- rencies entail changes in required import deposits. Importers are required to increase their deposits in the special account or they may receive reimbursement from the special account in the following cases: (1) when foreign exchange has been sold to the importer but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no foreign exchange has been sold and the goods have not been cleared by customs, and (3) when no foreign exchange has been sold but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas, which are established only for commodities that appear on lists I and II. Applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Financing through acceptance credits with a minimum maturity of 180 days is permitted for certain imports, including imports by industrialists for their own use. Turkish banks have been requested to use half of their total acceptance credit financing for imports of petro- leum and fertilizers. In principle, commercial banks have to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit financing from their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can apply at the Central Bank for the transfer of foreign exchange but, as a conse- quence, they lose the right to carry out future acceptance credit operations. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable m ad- vance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, list II, and the Fund list for industrialists' own require- ments, 10 percent, and for other importers, 20 percent, of the value of the merchandise.4 Public sector imports, with the exception of those included in general or added to the budget, are subject to a 10 percent advance import 4For fertilizers, ammonia, breeding animals, pesticides, wheat, and certain products on liberalized list II, the rate is 1 percent. For materials used for shipbuilding, repair, and modification carried out w i th in the country, and for the construction of shipyards, the rate is 0.1 percent, provided the value of imports does not exceed LT 250,000; when ships are built abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0.2 percent, provided the value of guarantee deposits does not exceed LT 500,000. 468 deposit requirement. For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported from a non-payments agreement country. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 percent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible currency countries only, or on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit remains blocked un t il the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier is paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corre- sponding to up to 10 percent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the Ministry of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through price-supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangements for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of manufactures and industrial and mining products who are entitled to foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 50 percent of exports for their own import needs. Exporters are entitled to use these foreign exchange earnings for payments for goods up to twice the amount of inputs imported under the "cash against goods" scheme. Fur- thermore, manufacturers who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee exports of a specific value, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to finance their import needs, up to 50 percent of the value of the export orders in hand or 50 percent of their export commitment. The arrangements for credits are subject to the condition that the exporter will repay the external credits out of export earnings. The Government makes available to manufacturers foreign exchange conversion authorizations from the Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are entitled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 1 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a limit of US$50,000. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain condi- tions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for per- sonal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery up to a limit (in terms of total import duties applicable) of the Turkish lira equivalent of DM 700. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instruments and machines, by persons who have resided abroad for employment or study; these vary with the length of stay abroad and w i th the transfer of foreign exchange to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Turkey. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import invest- ment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or family use, provided that they complete the customs clearance and related declaration. Foreign contractors may temporarily import machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their opera- tions. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. The sale or transfer in Turkey of goods imported on these terms is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Imports of automobiles,5 tractors, or professional machinery, etc., without payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the M in is try of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met relating to residence abroad and to remittance and sale of foreign exchange to authorized banks in Turkey. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who had imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agree- ments. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but these must be exported after three years; however, this three- year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. In addition to customs du ty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: (1) a customs surcharge (municipal tax) of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 1 percent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 percent on the sum of c . i . f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent on the sum of c . i . f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Goods under the Fund list are subject to special import levies determined periodically by the Money and Credit Council. A 15 percent import sur- charge is levied on imports of certain iron, steel, and plastic products from the European Community (EC). 5Automobiles are not included in the import program. TURKEY Under a program introduced in January 1980, cred- itors in respect of arrears on nonguaranteed import payments which had become short-term liabilities of the Central Bank have been given an option of receiving payment either in Turkish liras or in five foreign currencies (U .S. dollars, deutsche mark, pounds ster- l ing, French francs, and Swiss francs). Local currency obtained under the program is eligible for investment in specified areas; such investments cannot be transferred abroad for at least five years. Claimants exercising the foreign currency option could switch to the Turkish lira option up to the end of June 1982. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses, wh ich usua l ly are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adminis- tration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricul- tural nature) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens may not leave the country without obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to one trip a person every two years, and two trips a person a year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 percent is applied to the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals traveling abroad. Since May 1, 1981 this tax has been included within the daily exchange rates un iform ly quoted by the Central Bank of Turkey. The maximum foreign exchange allow- ance for business travel for one trip a year is between US$3,000 and US$4,500, w i th individual limits deter- mined on the basis of annual profit as indicated in the balance sheet of the applicant's firm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e .g ., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, and athletic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may pur- chase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the Turkish lira equivalent of US$100 in Turkish bank notes and coin. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all goods from Turkey are free within the framework of the decree on the Turkish export regime, with the exception of those exports which are prohibited by laws and decrees. All transactions of a commercial nature concerning exports from Turkey to foreign coun- tries are carried out in any of five ways, as follows: (a) Exports subject to permission. Certain exports, cited below, are subject to permission of the Ministry of Commerce: (1) exports of goods imported in compliance with provisions laid down by the Turkish import regime or Decree No. 17 on the protection of the value of Turkish currency; (2) exports of goods equal in quantity and value to those export goods whose delivery has been rejected by the purchaser owing to inferior or different quality and which have been returned or promised to be returned to the country by virtue of an exchange commitment document; (3) temporary exports; (4) transit trade; and (5) re-export trade. (b) Exports subject to license. Exports of goods (classified below), specified in list 6 annexed to the decree on the Turkish export regime and future sales, are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce or relevant professional associations6 and issued on the basis of consideration of the requirements of the Turkish economy and market conditions at home and abroad. List of commodities subject to license: (1) Cereals— wheat, barley, oats, corn, rye, and rice; (2) Oil Seeds— olive for producing oil and other oil seeds; (3) Oils—all kinds of liquid vegetable oils (excluding canned olive oil), butter, and olive-oil cake; (4) Fodder—those listed in Law No. 1734 concerning animal feed; (5) Livestock and products—sheep and cattle, all kinds of skins (unprocessed, semiprocessed and fully processed) of animals and furs; (6) Minerals—barite ore (unpro- cessed), antimony ore, all kinds of coal, unworked meerschaum, clipping, thin meerschaum, onyx (black), iron ore, zinc ore and concentrate, and magnesium ore; (7) Other products and manufactures —poppy heads, opium, all kinds of fertilizers, licorice roots, all kinds of flower bulbs, cement and clinker, and arms and ammunition. (c) Exports subject to registration. The Ministry of Commerce subjects exports to registration in the follow- ing cases: exports to certain countries, such as Czecho- slovakia, Poland, and U .S .S .R ., under some "special accounts"; exports on consignment or on joint account; exports from free zones or from duty-free warehouses; and exports on credit. 6The relevant professional associations are as follows: Unions of exporters established under Law No. 3018, and Chambers of Com- merce, Chambers of Industry and Chambers of Commerce and Industry, established under Law No. 5590. 470 Registration is an export permission issued by regis- tration authorities after it is established that the price of the export commodity corresponds to home and foreign market prices. To issue this permission, the relevant professional associations are required to take into ac- count the special market conditions at the target country, time of delivery, nature, qua l i ty, and quantity of the export commodity, sale conditions and other similar data. (d) Free exports. Exports of goods which are not subject to either license or registration or permission may be effected freely. Exporters are required to complete five copies of a registration declaration and submit the declaration directly to the customs authorities from where exportation shall be effected. (e) Exports under Decree No. 8/182. Exports (ex- cluding exports on credit and exports of goods specified in list 6 annexed to the decree on the Turkish export regime, such as cereals and livestock) under the framework of Decree No. 8/182 on the encouragement of exports, are not subject to either registration or licenses. Exporters are required to bring foreign exchange earnings to Turkey within three months from the date of exportation and to sell them to an authorized bank in Turkey within ten days. Special provisions apply in the following cases: (a) Exports on Consignment. In this case, goods are consigned to foreign buyers, brokers, agents, or repre- sentatives abroad without making final sale, and goods are left in their trust; at the time of export, there are no definite buyers and no definite value of goods. (b) Exports on Joint Account. Exports on consign- ment are carried out with the condition that a minimum price is guaranteed to the seller and the difference between the guaranteed price and the sale price is shared between the buyer and seller after deduction of the expenses. (c) Exports on Credit. Industrial products, benefiting from tax refund incentives under Law No. 261, can be exported on credit, provided that foreign exchange receipts are collected w i th in three years from the date of exportation. (d) Temporary Exports. Raw or semiprocessed com- modities, indicated in the list attached to the Turkish export regulation, can be sent to foreign countries to be processed further. (e) Free of Charge Commercial Exports. Commercial exports without quid pro quo in foreign exchange are as follows: exports of samples, gifts, articles for advertise- ments, replacement parts needed within the guarantee period or for goods exported with a guarantee, and exports to international fairs and exhibitions. Transit trade and re-export trade operations in con- formity with international commercial practices are conducted in accordance with the provision of Customs Law No. 1615 (transit trade regulation and decree on re- exportation). Any commission earned by transit or re- export trade operations must be retained in Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded, when industrial products are exported. The rates of rebate range from 5 percent to 20 percent of export value. The tax incentives include exemption of export earning from income and corpora- tion tax. The exemption range is from 20 percent to 30 percent. Export goods are also exempt from the produc- tion tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept foreign exchange from foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earnings in the form of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to resi- dents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 15,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish bank notes and coin by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to the Turkish lira equivalent of US$100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transac- tions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Subject to specific permission issued by the Ministry of Finance, residents may acquire foreign securities. Residents are required to obtain permission to acquire foreign real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey, but special facilities exist for borrowing from the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to nonresidents but not transferable under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sale proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but TURKEY if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is released. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, for example, for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property, and for living expenses of up to LT 30,000 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 15,000 for certain relatives. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 percent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 percent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' investment require- ments in Turkey, provided the permission of the Minis- try of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits are blocked and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income re- lated thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in export industries or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances, the equiva- lent of up to 25 percent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment. All or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liq- uidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transfer- able between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural nature) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. For- eign investments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor is not entitled to any transfer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special facilities for the acquisition of Turkish shares and bonds by Turkish citizens working abroad. Nonresidents and Turkish nationals working abroad are no longer permitted to open, or to add to, demand and time accounts with commercial banks in convertible Turkish liras, carrying an exchange guarantee of the Central Bank. On existing accounts, the exchange rate guarantee is limited to the amount of deposits held on March 1, 1978. In addition, 43 banks are permitted to build up an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central Bank) of up to 10 percent of the exchange receipts from exports and invisible transactions in the previous year. With the exception of borrowing by the Government from foreign governments or government agencies and from international institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad from private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is the respon- sibility of the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the relevant commissions, and expenses up to 1 percent. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that the maturity of such credits must not be less than two years and the rate of interest must not exceed the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) by more than 2.25 percent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be presented for minting by the State Mint. Gold may be imported freely, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses 472 are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement December 19. The arrangement for the retention and transfer of specified proportions of export earnings (50 percent of the foreign exchange earnings from exports of mining products and manufactures, 10 percent for exports of fresh vegetables, f ru i ts, and f ish, and 10 percent of earnings of Turkish contractors working abroad) was modified, such that exporters were no longer permitted to transfer foreign exchange entitle- ments under the arrangement to a third party, but could use such entitlements only for their own import require- ments. (Previously, exercise of the right of transfer of foreign exchange to a third party at a freely determined rate resulted in more depreciated rates than the official rate.) Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts March 10. Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran entered into a bilateral payments agreement for a period through June 1983. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Albania and the U .S .S .R. were terminated. Imports and Import Payments January 5. The import regime for 1982 was an- nounced, containing the following main features: (a) items under 36 tariff lines were shifted from list II to list I; (b) a new list called the "Fund list" was established, with items under 23 tariff lines; (c) import procedures for items under the Fund list were defined as the same for list I items, with the exception that items under the Fund list were subject to special import levies determined periodically by the Money and Credit Council, and would therefore be separately administered from the list I items; and (d) the import guarantee deposit requirement was reduced from 10 percent to 1 percent for certain types of fertilizer, pesticides, and wheat. February 2. Cocoa butter was shifted from list II to the Fund list. March 5. Taximeters, speedometers, and coin- counting machines were shifted from list I to list II. April 4. A 15 percent import surcharge was imposed on imports of iron and steel from the EC. (The surcharge was abolished on August 25, 1982.) April 22. Photographic plates and films and related items were shifted from list II to list I. May 1. Cigarette paper of various types was shifted from list II to list I. December 12. A 15 percent import surcharge was reimposed on imports of iron and steel from the EC; plastic products from the same countries were also made subject to the import surcharge. December 19. The arrangement for the retention and transfer of specified proportions of export earnings (50 percent of the foreign exchange earnings from exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY mining products and manufactures, 10 percent for exports of fresh vegetables, f ru i ts, and f ish, and 10 percent of earnings of Turkish contractors working abroad) was modified, such that exporters were no longer permitted to transfer foreign exchange entitle- ments under the arrangement to a third party, but could use such entitlements only for purposes of their own import requirements. (Previously, exercise of the right of transfer of foreign exchange to a third party at a freely determined rate resulted in more depreciated rates than the official rate.) Payments for Invisibles March 29. The restriction on tourist travel was relaxed from one trip a person every three years to one trip every two years. In addition, the max imum amount that travelers could take out of Turkey in the form of Turkish bank notes and coin was increased to the equivalent of US$100 from the previous l im it of LT 1,000. Proceeds from Invisibles March 29. The max imum amount that travelers could bring into Turkey in the form of Turkish bank notes and coin was increased to the equ iva lent of US$100 from the previous l im it of LT 1,000. Capital June 3. Forty-three domestic banks were authorized to bu i ld up foreign exchange reserves up to 10 percent of the foreign exchange receipts from exports and invisible transactions in the previous year. (Previously, the authorization was limited to US$20 m i l l ion, and was granted only to banks w i th total deposits of over LT 2 b i l l ion, or w i th foreign exchange inf low over US$30 m i l l ion. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. The official exchange rate of the Uganda shilling against the U.S. dollar is determined independently on a daily basis by taking into account movements in the exchange value of the currencies of Uganda's other major trading partners. The Bank of Uganda rarely deals in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and Japanese yen. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 104.97 and U Sh 107.09, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U .S. dollar in the international market. There are two exchange markets. In the first market ("Window One"), transactions relat- ing to traditional exports, official loans, and essential imports are conducted at the official exchange rate. All other transactions are conducted in the second market ("Window Two") at a rate which is determined at an auction held by the Bank of Uganda at weekly intervals. On December 31, 1982 the mid-rate at the second window was U Sh 240.00 per US$1. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 0.4 percent buying and 0.6 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates. Authorized banks may, subject to exchange control approval, deal forward with customers in sterling, U .S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of not more than 0.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, wh ich are settled in U .S. dollars. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to resi- dents of foreign countries other than Israel and South 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U .S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda sh i l l ing. 474 Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda sh i l l ings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain settlements with Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts maintained with commercial banks. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idual permis- sion, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports are controlled through import licensing and foreign exchange allocations. Imports are subject to import licenses issued by the Ugandan Advisory Board of Trade (UABT) under the Minister of Commerce. These licenses are issued freely for all nonprohibited imports; for transactions through the second w indow, import payments up to US$2,000 can be effected without an import license. Imports normally must be purchased directly from the country of origin. Documentary evi- dence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities w i th in six months from the date of payment. Monthly foreign exchange allocations for imports eligi- ble for finance at Window One are prepared by a committee chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Uganda and are approved by the President's Economic Advisory Committee. There has been some accumula- tion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda; payments to Israel and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution South Africa are prohibited. The amount of foreign exchange for business travel is limited to US$4,000 a person a year. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave subject to the terms of the original contract. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad, except for post-secondary technical education. Allowances for post-secondary education abroad are based on estimates of tuition fees, board and lodging, and incidental expenses; foreign exchange is not nor- mally provided when a comparable level of instruction is provided in Uganda. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Upon leaving, they may also remit a further US$5,000. Allowances for medical and advertising expenses are considered on a case-by-case basis. Appli- cations to remit profits, dividends, and interest payments at the second window are automatically approved; however, some arrears incurred on profits and dividends prior to the opening of the dual market remain outstanding. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit specified below. The export of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 1,000 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports require licenses from the UABT and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Authority has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be collected within six months of exportation and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in turn surrender these proceeds to the Bank of Uganda within three business days, failure of which entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 percent above the LIBOR. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export du ty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank w i th in 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 1,000 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. UGANDA Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individual exchange control approval and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of spec- ified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a family un it from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securi- ties. The principal is transferred after a period of five years; the accrued interest is also released but not remitted. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or indi- viduals. Foreign investment is permitted in Uganda with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public u t i l i t ies, transportation, telecommunica- tions, shipping, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Gov- ernment may pre-empt a certain percentage of the ownership but does accept private investment from both domestic and foreign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, ap- proved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. With minor excep- tions, prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in Uganda that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other capital transfers and all invisible payments not specified above are freely permitted up to an aggregate max imum allowance of US$2,000 a person a year, provided there is adequate evidence to support the application. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but in practice does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA ized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the form of ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restric- tively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement August 23. A dual exchange market was established. November 23. A number of import items, such as motor vehicle spare parts and tires, were transferred from "Window One" to "Window Two." Imports and Import Payments August 23. Import licenses were to be issued freely for all nonprohibited imports. It was announced that import licensing procedures would be streamlined. November 21. The following changes were made in the import system: (a) it was decided that licenses for imports through Window Two would be approved w i th in a week or five working days; (b) the 5 percent advance import deposit was suspended; (c) the 1 percent fee charged for the issuance of import licenses was sus- pended; (d) import duties were reduced by between 30 percent and 50 percent on a wide range of goods; (e) the practice of granting licenses to importers with their own foreign exchange was terminated; (f) a number of import items, such as motor vehicle spare parts and tires, were transferred from Window One to Window Two. Payments for Invisibles August 23. Exchange control regulations were liberalized. Quantitative limits on travel and emigrant and expatriate remittances were raised substantially. It was announced that new contracts between companies holding external accounts and the Government of Uganda would guarantee the full repatriation of profit, dividend, and debt service payments. A maximum annual allowance of US$2,000 a person was allocated for all other invisible payments except education, med- ical, and advertising expenses, which would continue to be treated on a case-by-case basis and all capital transfers for which specific regulations did not apply, provided that applications were accompanied by adequate docu- mentary evidence. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. All remaining quantitative restrictions on the export of agricultural products were lifted; however, the Minister of Commerce continued to reserve the right to limit the export of any commodity to ensure sufficient supplies for domestic consumption. Capital August 23. All restrictions were lifted on nonguaran- teed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals. It was announced that new contracts be- tween companies holding external accounts and the Government of Uganda would guarantee the fu ll repatri- ation of profit, dividend, and debt service payments. Quantitative limits on emigrant remittances were raised. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U .A .E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate. The U .S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar only. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U .S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commer- cial banks for currencies other than the U .S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, max imum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one- month and three-month swaps. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 'The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Duba i, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qa iwa in, Ras al Kha imah, and Fujairah. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 1 percent of c . i . f. value. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported freely, without an export license, to any destination, other than South Africa. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. The proceeds from exports need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Not less than 70 percent of the shares of financial institutions (excluding banks) must be held by nationals or organizations of the United Arab Emirates; two thirds of the board of directors, together with the chairman, must also be nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits w i th the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their foreign loans in dirhams. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be undertaken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments April 12. A decree was issued, amending previous customs ordinances and subjecting all imports into Dubai (other than those previously exempted) to a customs duty of 1 percent of c . i .f. value. April 14. All imports into Sharjah (other than those previously exempted) were subjected to a customs duty of 1 percent of c . i . f. value. Capital March 24. The interest free deposit required to be made at the Central Bank by banks operating in the United Arab Emirates was raised from 15 percent to 30 percent of their dirham-denominated foreign loans with original maturities not exceeding one year (previously three months), 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. Whether the rate is rising or falling, intervention by the authorities is limited to smoothing operations to moderate excessive fluctuations and preserve orderly markets. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1982 were US$1.6210 and US$1.6095 respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls have been abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Department of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United King- dom are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;2 the CEFTA Area;3 the Community Area;4 the Dollar Area;5 the Far Eastern and Western Area;6 the Mediterranean 'With effect from April 3, 1982 the United K ingdom, for security reasons, temporarily suspended use as well as transferability of Argentine financial assets in the United Kingdom. 2The ACP Area comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bar- bados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, D j ibou t i, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Ma law i, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Sudan, Suriname, Swaz i land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuva lu, Uganda, Upper Volta, Vanua tu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 3The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (West), Greece, Iceland, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 4The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 5 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 6The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. Area;7 the OCT Area;8 the State Trading Area;9 the Residual Textile Area;10 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods and all goods exported from Argentina,11 most imports are admitted under an Open General Import License without restriction, with the following exceptions as at the end of 1982: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;12 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) from Romania only, one group of commodities; (5) from Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, the German Democratic Re- public and Berlin (East), one group of commodities; (6) from the State Trading Area only, seven commodities or groups of commodities; and (7) from the U .S .S .R only, certain luxury and manufactured goods. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices 7The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Leba- non, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 8The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French South- ern and Antarctic Territories, Mayotte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten, and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States (St. Christopher-Nevis and Angu i l la). 9The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic and Berlin (East), Hungary, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. 10 The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Ha i t i, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Ta iwan t, Thailand, Uruguay, Zimbabwe, and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. "The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, or the United States. 12The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale products, and a number of other w i ld l i fe products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported only if consignments are certified that buffer stock payments required under the international cocoa agreement of 1980 have been made. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EC regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling bank notes may be dispatched to nonresidents against payment in sterling or in any foreign currency. For any type of travel U .K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accommoda- tion, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign currency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports are free of export control and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds. Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credit Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in U .S. dollars, deutsche mark, or yen may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the submission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other bank notes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial ownership of residents of other countries. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) are remitta- ble at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other country may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United Kingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents. However, cases involving the takeover of existing U .K. companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry may be subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufac- 480 turing undertakings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported, without formality. Warrants issued by regis- trars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dis- patched abroad freely. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (that is, the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a !/2 of 1 percent cash deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coin are not subject to control in the United Kingdom. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The U .K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Changes were made in the coverage of the intra-Community surveillance licensing of imports of certain textile goods. January 8. Quotas were imposed on certain dresses originating in the Republic of Korea. January 20. Surveillance licensing was introduced for imports of certain bed and table linen originating in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. February 12. Under the EC/China Industrial Products Agreement, restrictions on the import of radiograms were abolished. Importation of common pottery origina- ting in both Romania and the People's Republic of China was also liberalized. March 5. Restrictions were lifted on importation of dried bananas from the Dollar Area. March 9. Quotas were imposed on certain skirts and gloves originating in the People's Republic of China. March 20. In line with a regulation approved by the Council of Ministers of the EC, restrictions were imposed on a range of luxury and manufactured goods originating in the U .S .S .R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 23. A quota was imposed on certain undergar- ments originating in Singapore. April 6. Quotas were imposed on certain pajamas, nightdresses, and babies' undergarments originating in the People' Republic of China. April 7. Goods exported from Argentina were pro- hibited from being imported into the United Kingdom unless specifically licensed by the Department of Trade. A ban was also imposed on the export to Argentina from the United Kingdom of all arms, ammun i t ion, military equipment, and strategic supplies. May 11. A quota was imposed on certain cotton fabrics originating in Turkey. June 15. A quota was imposed on certain undergar- ments originating in Sri Lanka. June 17. Intra-Community surveillance licensing was introduced on tents originating in the German Demo- cratic Republic. June 30. A quota was imposed on certain dresses originating in Singapore. July 23. A quota was imposed on certain suits and costumes originating in Macao. July 27. Quotas were imposed on certain undergar- ments originating in the People's Republic of China and certain outer garments originating in the Republic of Korea. August 4. Licensing was suspended in respect of certain undergarments originating in Turkey. August 10. Restrictions were imposed on imports of certain Czechoslovak iron and steel products wh ich had previously been covered by voluntary restraint arrangements. UNITED KINGDOM August 17. Surveillance licensing was discontinued for certain textile goods originating in Malta. August 26. A quota was imposed on cotton yarn originating in Turkey. September 7. A quota was imposed on certain suits originating in the People's Republic of China. September 10. A quota was imposed on certain suits and costumes originating in Thailand. October 1. Surveillance licensing was discontinued for certain textile goods originating in Cyprus. November 5. Intra-Community surveillance licensing was introduced on leather gloves originating in the People's Republic of China. November 9. Restrictions were imposed on imports of certain Bulgarian iron and steel products which had previously been covered by voluntary restraint arrangements. November 16. A quota was imposed on certain suits originating in the People's Republic of China. Exports and Export Proceeds - November 1. In implementation of an agreement between the EC and the United States for restructuring export of the products concerned from Europe to the U .S ., controls were placed on the export of certain steel products to the United States. Capital April 3. The use and transferability of Argentine financial assets in the United Kingdom was temporarily suspended, for security reasons. September 15. The financial restrictions imposed on April 3, 1982 against Argentina were abolished. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U .S. Dollar. The U .S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disor- derly conditions in the exchange markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers license applications involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above coun- tries1 as well as accounts of Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and L i thuan ia, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations.2 The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are adminis- tered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas on sugar are set on a quarterly basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of Energy. For items subject to export control—other than crude petroleum and petroleum products and mun i- tions—the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Islamic Republic of Iran (see footnote 2), the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 1 Under the agreement on settlement of claims, concluded between the United States and Czechoslovakia in 1981, blocked accounts between the two countries were unblocked in March 1982. 2Restrictions on payments to the Islamic Republic of Iran, except for payments from Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981, were revoked on January 19, 1981, pursuant to an Executive Order and to regulations issued thereunder. Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981 have, w i th limited exceptions, been transferred to the Islamic Republic of Iran or to various escrow accounts as set forth in the January 19, 1981 agreements between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran. 482 and Viet Nam. Certain payments to Cuba for support of relatives in Cuba and for purposes of authorized travel in Cuba are permitted, as are certain payments in connec- tion with travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals. Remittances to the remitter's close relatives in Viet Nam are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are prohibited under treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes (tariff-rate quotas); and (3) sugar. Moreover, quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. Among the quantitative import quotas, all except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, oil, and sugar are on a country-of- production basis. In addition, imports of crude petro- leum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program and import license fees. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the GATT Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and to 26 bilateral textile agree- ments negotiated in accordance with the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements restrict trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. The agreements provide for orderly expansion of trade without disrupting U .S. markets for textile and apparel products. As of the end of 1982, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products except that imports of crude petroleum originat- ing in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya were prohibited; imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products were generally subject to import licenses and a goal that net imports into the 50 states should not exceed an average rate of 7.3 million barrels a day. Imports of a number of manufactured products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries, including those of clothespins, color televisions, ferrochrome, mushrooms, cookware, and steel. In addition, Japan restrains exports of automobiles to the United States. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) scheme went into operation in the United States in January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through January 2, 1985. Under a new procedure referred to as "graduation," eligibility can be withdrawn from certain countries on a product-by-product basis. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to members of the Andean Group, of the ASEAN and of CARICOM: cumulation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the value added in a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. During the seven years ended in December 1982, duty-free imports by the United States under the scheme have increased from US$3.2 billion to US$8.4 billion. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equipment as well as instruments and related technical data to all countries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U .S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to certain areas of goods of foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U .S. nationals.) All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam (with the exception of certain publicly available tech- nical data and educational materials, personal baggage, and limited gift parcels) are prohibited unless individu- ally licensed by the Department of Commerce. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. For many commodities, when ex- ported to countries other than Afghanistan, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assis- tance (CMEA), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's shipment. The licensing requirements applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern Euro- pean countries. Under the authority of the Export Administration Act of 1979, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although every effort is made to make sparing use of such authority. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, corn, sorghum, soybean, and soybean oil, exporting companies partici- pate in a reporting system that is designed to improve market information and to allow for more orderly exporting and, thereby, lessen substantially the need for government intervention. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. UNITED STATES Viet Nam, which are permitted only under license.3 U .S. residents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Certain transactions in connection with authorized travel in Cuba are permitted. Receipts from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are generally pro- hibited, except as authorized. Individuals leaving or entering the country with more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking regulations. However, as noted above, there are restric- tions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and Viet Nam (see footnote 3 concern- ing the Islamic Republic of Iran). In addition, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the country when they are carrying more than US$5,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corresponding reporting requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U .S. farmland by foreign nationals or by U .S. corporations of which 5 percent or more is foreign- owned must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the Union impose varying restrictions on purchases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encouraging placement of deposits by U .S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to prudential limitations of a quantitative nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and not maintain imprudent positions. U .S. agencies and branches of foreign banks as well as domestic banks are subject to Federal Reserve requirements. Beginning December 3, 1981 U .S. depository institu- tions, U .S. offices of Edge and Agreement Corpora- tions,4 and U .S. branches and agencies of foreign banks Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and 3 Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving stand-by letters of credit, performance bonds, and similar obligations w i th the Islamic Republic of Iran contracted prior to January 20, 1981 are subject to restrictions. 4 These are defined as domestically chartered corporations author- ized to engage in international banking and financial operations. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES may establish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements of Regulation D and from interest rate limitations of Regulation Q. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the m in imum transaction amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents, to other IBFs, or to the entity estab- lishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are subject to the reserve requirement on Eurocurrency liabilities in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. A number of individual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from FDIC insurance coverage and assessments. Gold U .S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e .g ., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, w i th the same country excep- tions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U .S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import du ty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no du ty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments February 22. The President signed Proclamation 4901 extending through February 22, 1984 the temporary quantitative limits on the importation of wood and plastic spring-type clothespins with a dutiable value not over US$1.70 a gross. This limitation had been in force since February 23, 1979 and was due to expire on February 22, 1982. February 25. A barter agreement w i th Jamaica was signed, under which the United States would receive bauxite for the U .S. strategic stockpile, and Jamaica would receive US$39 million in cash, 7,000 metric tons 484 of nonfat dry milk and 1,900 metric tons of anhydrous milk fa t, for a total of US$52 million. February 26. The President signed Executive Order 12349 amending the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). February 27. The President signed Proclamation 4904 terminating increased rates of duty on imports of certain types of mushrooms, while retaining them for certain others. In force since November 1, 1980, the increased rates were due to expire on October 31, 1983. March 10. The President signed Proclamation 4907 providing that no crude oil produced in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (except crude oil loaded aboard maritime vessels before March 12, 1982) could be imported into the United States, its territories, or possessions. The measure was taken on the grounds that such imports were inimical to the U .S. national security. March 30. The President signed Executive Order 12354 prescribing the list of products eligible for duty- free entry under the GSP. Under the policy of graduation (see above), the list excluded products with a total value of US$651 million originating in Brazil, Hong Kong, Israel, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwant. The list also excluded products with a total value of US$7 billion on the basis of "competitive need" and added articles w i th a total value of US$76 million as a result of the annual product review. March 31. Cumu la t ive treatment under the GSP scheme was extended to the Caribbean Common Market; cumu la t ion would allow two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the value added in a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. May 5. The President signed Proclamations 4940 and 4941 raising fees and imposing quotas on imports of certain sugars, syrups, and molasses derived from sugarcane or sugar beets, on the grounds that these imports interfered w i th the operation of the domestic sugar price support program. Proclamation 4940 pro- vided that fees would be revised quarterly on the basis of market prices. Proclamation 4941 imposed an import quota of 220,000 short tons (raw value) for the period May 11-June 30, 1982 and provided for the import quota level to be adjusted quarterly by the Secretary of Agriculture. The quota would be allocated among exporting countries according to the percentage perform- ance of those countries in the U .S. market during 1975- 81, excluding years of high and low exports. May 11. The 1976 fishery agreement with the U .S .S .R ., due to expire on Ju ly 1, 1982, was extended through Ju ly 1, 1983. June 2. The Administration transmitted to Congress its request for a further extension for 12 months of the waiver of subsections (a) and (b) of Section 402 of the Trade Act of 1974 for Hungary, the People's Republic of China, and Romania. This section of the Trade Act specified that most-favored-nation status could not be given to countries w i th nonmarket economies that denied tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the right to free emigration. The Administration asserted that restrictions on emigration in these countries had been relaxed and recommended that the waiver be continued. June 21. The 1976 fishery agreement with Poland, due to expire on Ju ly 1, 1982, was extended through Ju ly 1, 1983. July 12. The President signed Executive Order 12371 amending the GSP. July 26. A fishery agreement with the Republic of Korea was signed. July 29. A fishery agreement with Spain was signed. September 10. A fishery agreement with Japan was signed. September 30. The President signed Proclamation 4980 providing for a phased reduction of rates of duty on certain products under a trade agreement with Taiwant signed on December 31, 1981. October 21. Under an arrangement introduced to restrain steel exports from the European Community (EC) to the United States during the period October 21, 1982 to December 31, 1985, the European Coal and Steel Community and the EC agreed to establish export licenses or other export measures with respect to specified steel mill products destined for consumption in the United States. October 25. The President signed Executive Order 12389 amending the GSP. October 27. The President signed Proclamation 4991 suspending the obligations of the United States under GATT to extend certain rates of duty to imports from Poland. October 30. The United States and Argentina ter- minated an agreement concerning hide exports and other trade matters signed on August 10, 1979. (The agree- ment had been in force since October 1, 1979 and provided for Argentina to end its embargo on exports of cattle hides and for the United States to reduce its duties on imports of bovine leather and corned beef.) November 10. The President signed Proclamation 4998 modifying tariff-rate quotas on brooms made wholly or in part of broom corn. November 16. The President directed the U .S. Trade Representative to (1) request the U .S. International Trade Commission to conduct an expedited investigation under Section 201 of the 1974 Trade Act w i th regard to five specialty steel products (stainless steel bar, rod, plate, sheet and strip and alloy tool steel) (investigations on these products under Section 302 of the Act had been initiated on February 26 and August 9, 1982); (2) initiate multilateral or bilateral discussions aimed at the elimina- tion of all trade distortive practices in the specialty steel sectors; and (3) monitor imports of those specialty steel products. November 24. A four-year textile agreement was signed w i th the Philippines, effective January 1, 1983. November 30. The President signed Proclamation 5002 providing for the Secretary of Agriculture to tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 56. UNITED STATES exempt from the import quotas imposed on May 5, 1982, sugars, syrups, and molasses to be used for the produc- tion of certain polyhydric alcohols, or to be re-exported in refined form or in products that contain sugar. December 14. A six-year textile agreement was signed with the Republic of Korea, retroactive to January 1, 1982. December 21. A four-year textile agreement was signed with India, effective January 1, 1983. December 21. Imports of man-made fiber luggage, handbags, and certain flat goods were exempted from quantitative restraint and visa requirements effective January 1, 1983, on the grounds that they had not been included in the U .S. bilateral textile and apparel agreements. December 21. Import restraints were imposed on certain wood products originating in the Republic of Maldives for the period September 29, 1982 to Septem- ber 28, 1983. December 27. Upon expiration of the September 1980 bilateral cotton agreement with the People's Republic of China, the U .S. Government announced that if no agreement was reached by January 15, 1983, import control would be imposed on cotton imports from China under Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956. Exports and Export Proceeds February 25. A barter agreement with Jamaica was signed, under which the United States would receive bauxite for the U .S. strategic stockpile, and Jamaica would receive US$39 million in cash, 7,000 metric tons of nonfat dry m i lk, and 1,900 metric tons of anhydrous milk fa t, for a total of US$52 million. March 10. It was announced that export licenses would be required for all U .S. exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya except food, agricultural items, medicines, and medical equipment. Most exports would receive licenses, but the general policy would be to deny licenses for national security items and for high technol- ogy oil and gas equipment that was not readily available outside the United States. April 30. As a consequence of the South Atlantic conflict, the U .S. Administration imposed the following sanctions against Argentina: suspension of all military exports, withholding of certification of Argentine eligi- bility for military sales, suspension of new Export- Import Bank credits, insurance and guarantees, and suspension of new guarantees by the Commodity Credit Corporation. May 11. The 1976 fishery agreement with the U .S .S .R ., due to expire on Ju ly 1, 1982, was extended through Ju ly 1, 1983. June 18. The U .S. Administration announced that the sanctions on the export of oil and gas equipment to the U .S .S .R ., imposed on December 30, 1981, would be extended through adoption of new regulations to include equipment produced by subsidiaries of U .S. companies abroad, as well as equipment produced abroad under licenses issued by U .S. companies. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES June 21. The 1976 fishery agreement with Poland, due to expire on July 1, 1982, was extended through July 1, 1983. July 12. The U .S. Administration lifted the economic sanctions imposed on April 30, 1982 against Argentina; the military sanctions remained in place. July 26. A fishery agreement with the Republic of Korea was signed. July 29. A fishery agreement with Spain was signed. September 10. A fishery agreement with Japan was signed. October 30. The United States and Argentina ter- minated an agreement in force since October 1, 1979 concerning hide exports and other trade matters. The agreement had provided for Argentina to end its embargo on exports of cattle hides and for the United States to reduce its duties on imports of bovine leather and corned beef. November 13. The U .S. Administration lifted the sanctions on the export of oil and gas equipment to the U .S .S .R. imposed on December 30, 1981 and expanded on June 18, 1982. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 20. Effective May 15 the Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department amended the control regulations on travel by U .S. persons to and within Cuba. The amendment limited the general license for travel-related purposes to travel for specified purposes, including official travel, visits to close relatives, travel connected with research, news gathering, or similar activities, and travel fu l ly hosted by persons not subject to U .S. jurisdiction. In addition, the processing and payment of credit cards, instruments, and transactions in connection with the extension of credit to any person in Cuba was no longer authorized. 486 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission of 2.50 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Upper Vo l ta's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury and International Financial Affa irs in the Directorate-General of the Treasury and of Public Ac- counts in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in foreign currency, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in limits specified in the exchange control regula- tions, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices in the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development, and 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlement between agencies of the BCEAO. Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place w i th a country outside the French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs administration. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Volta is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions w i th The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements w i th the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected either through corre- spondent banks in France, or the countryconcerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the French Franc Area) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an authorized bank's foreign corre- spondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized inter- mediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may in principle be made freely, although, exceptionally, special regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EC countries, w i th minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance w i th an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices. Under this program, global quotas are established for specified commodities and 3 A b i la teral agreement was negotiated w i th Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA these require import licenses. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regulations. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statistical duty of 3 percent. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment, if the commodities have already been im- ported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring jus t i f i- cation. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing after return to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,^)00 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Residents traveling to for- eign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documentation. Finally, they may take out freely up to 488 CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agricul- tural products require a license from the Directorate- General of Commerce and Prices. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely but some require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit a customs certification. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of ex- change control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investrnent and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta. Such operations require prior authorization ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Vo l tan Govern- ment and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Upper Volta has already been authorized. W i th the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance,4 and unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Economy and Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign currency borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whe ther these are Upper Voltan investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Upper Volta in vital or priority sectors are required to have Upper Voltan participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign com- panies operating in Upper Volta requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and 4 Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Upper Vo l ta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies operating in Upper Vo l ta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of fo re ign compan ies. UPPER VOLTA Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, wh ich are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Vo l ta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Economy and Finance to finance interna- tional merchan t ing transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to ex- change control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Economy and Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance w i th which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, du t ies, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 20 years. The benefits under Category B are more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Directorate of the Treasury and International Financial Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams by travelers. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Until October 1978 Uruguay maintained a dual exchange market, the commercial market and the financial market, but the two markets were unified de facto in October 1978 when the Central Bank announced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amounts at frequent intervals. With effect from November 28, 1979 the commercial and financial markets were unified de jure. On Decem- ber 26, 1978 the Government announced that the new peso would be depreciated each month according to a preannounced peso-U.S. dollar relationship for a num- ber of months. This preannounced exchange rate system was replaced on November 26, 1982 by a floating exchange rate system. Buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1982, were NUr$33.50 and NUr$33.75, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Export proceeds are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, commercial banks, and banking houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through author- ized banks, banking houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods w i th Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other countries are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. 490 Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are 10, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, and 70 percent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration, with the exception of the 10 percent surcharge which is collected by the Bank of the Republic. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAI A, for imports of agricultural inputs, for imports by the public sector, for imports of capital goods, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between 0 percent and 20 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c . i . f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to the IMADUNI and the TMB. Most imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f .o .b. value. These charges are 3.5 percent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead; 0.25 percent for imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise (ANCAP); 0.5 percent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 percent for all other private sector imports. Import surcharges are calculated either on an officially assessed price (aforo or precio de referenda),* which usually is expressed in U .S. dollars a kilogram, or on the actual c . i . f. value, whichever is higher. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds2 Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sold to the banks not later than 36 months after receipt. Tax credit certificates (reintegros)3 are granted at a rate averaging 18.3 percent of the f .o .b. value for nontradi- tional exports. Export of cattle on the hoof requires authorization from the Ministry of Agriculture. Exports of specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, aluminum, and nickel) are prohibited. 1 The system of o f f ic ia l ly determined reference prices for the calculation of import surcharges was scheduled to be abolished w i th effect from January 1, 1983. 2 On January 5, 1983, the fo l low ing changes in export regulations entered into force: (a) Decree No. 4/83 introduced financial subsidies of 15 percent of f .o .b. va lue for traditional exports and of 5 percent for combed wool; and (b) Decree No. 5/83 introduced a graduated sur- charge system on "dumped" exports, equivalent to the difference between the "normal export price" and the declared c . i . f. value. 3Under Decree No. 412/982, of November 26, 1982, the system of tax credit certificates was replaced, w i th effect from January 1, 1983, by a system of reimbursement of "indirect" taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, w i th the exception of certain inward and outward transfers re- lating to investments registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law. The amortization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad un t il three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement November 26. The system of a preannounced rate of devaluation was replaced by a floating exchange rate arrangement. Imports and Import Payments January 13. The Ministry of Finance approved the increase of reference prices for import of clothes. January 14. The Ministry of Finance established a reference price for imports of automobile covers. January 22. The Ministry of Finance approved an increase in the reference price for calcium carbonate imports. January 29. The Ministry of Finance approved the reintroduction of previous (and higher) tariff rates for the imports of textile and paper products. February 15. The Ministry of Finance approved an increase in the reference price for caustic soda imports. March 5. The Ministry of Finance approved an increase in the reference price on the imports of tiles. May 21. Decree No. 176/982 established sanitary and quality controls for imported fruits, vegetables, and flowers. June 2. Decree No. 189/82 established a 10 percent tax credit certificate on all exports and a surcharge of 10 percent on all imports. June 28. Decree No. 259/982 established a customs duty of 75 percent on imports of pineapples in cans. June 28. Decree No. 262/982 reduced the customs duty on certain motorboat imports from 75 percent to 45 percent of the c . i . f. value. July 21. Decree No. 251/982 established complemen- tary norms for sanitary controls on imports of fresh Pyrus Malus, Pyrus communis, and other specified products. September 2. Decree No. 314/982 increased the total tariff on imports of potato starch to 45 percent. September 2. Decree No. 316/982 increased the total tariff on imports of certain iron products to 75 percent. URUGUAY September 2. Decree No. 319/982 eliminated the 10 percent m i n im um customs du ty on imported Argentine products, fo l low ing the Economic Cooperation Treaty signed w i th Argen t ina. September 22. Decree No. 338/982 established a control system on imported food and beverage products. September 24. Decree Nos. 340-345/982 established a qua l i ty control standard for imported gar l ic, peppers, tomatoes, carrots, and other specified items. September 24. Decree No. 376/982 reduced customs du ty on tar imports from 65 percent to 15 percent, and on petroleum coke imports from 65 percent to 25 percent. September 24. Decree No. 377/982 increased customs duty on ribbon imports for office typewriters from 35 percent to 75 percent. September 30. Decree No. 351/981 reduced customs duty for certain types of polypropylene material (TYPAR) imports from 75 percent to 35 percent. September 30. Decree No. 350/982 increased customs du ty on tin imports w i th graphic impressions from 25 percent to 75 percent. November 10. Decree No. 392/982 extended the va l id i ty period of the customs du ty on imports of television sets (45 percent) and television kits (10 percent). November 15. The M in is try of Finance defined a reference price of US$0.74 a kilogram for red delicious apples and US$0.51 a kilogram for other varieties. November 26. Decree No. 412/981 abolished Decree No. 189/82, wh ich established a 10 percent tax credit certificate on all exports and 10 percent du ty surcharges on all imports. December 2. Decree No. 472/982 increased the customs du ty on centrifuge tubes from 35 percent to 55 percent. December 8. Decree No. 442/982 reduced the cus- toms du ty on wheat from 35 percent to zero percent un t il December 31, 1983. December 27. Decree 477/982 was issued, making extensive changes in the import tariff system, including surcharges, with effect from January 1, 1983. December 27. Decree No. 479/982 fixed the import tariff level on imported capital goods at 10 percent. December 27. Decree No. 480/982 defined the regis- tered imports for which this decree w i ll be applicable, that is, for imports registered as of November 29, 1982. Exports and Export Proceeds January 14. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 16 percent of f .o .b. value for caustic soda exports un t il November 30, 1982. January 27. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 8 percent of f .o .b. value for fungicide metal exports un t il November 30, 1982. January 27. Under Decree No. 52/982, the rate of tax credit certificates for exports of automobile parts was unified for all exporters. (Previously, exports under compensation arrangements by the automobile industry were accorded a lower rate of tax credit certificate.) 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY February 5. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 4 percent as f .o .b. value for "counting scale" exports until November 30, 1982. February 27. The Ministry of Finance approved the postponement of the tax credit certificate on certain automobile spare parts and the increase of the tax credit certificate on fish exports un t il November 30, 1982. April 15. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 9 percent of f.o.b. value for exports of manual switchboards and of 15 percent of f .o .b. value for exports of ink products until November 30, 1982. April 26. The Ministry of Finance granted, until November 30, 1982, a tax credit certificate of 11 percent of f.o.b. value for exports of calcium chloride solution; 16 percent of f .o .b. value for exports of gray packing cartons produced mechanically; 14 percent of f .o .b. value for exports of certain types of refrigerators; 24 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of phenol formal molding hopper; 13 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of covers made with bovine leather; and 15 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of wool blankets for cars. May 13. The Ministry of Finance granted, un t il November 30, 1982, a tax credit certificate of 16 percent on the f.o.b. value for exports of brooms made with artificial plastic materials; 16 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of alcohol solution; 16 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of carton boxes; 17 percent of f .o .b. . value for paper exports for printing; 11 percent of the f.o.b. value for exports of ties made with bovine leather; and 4 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of dissolving and diluting solutions. June 2. Decree No. 189/982 established a 10 percent tax credit certificate on all exports and 10 percent tariff surcharge on all imports. (These rates were scheduled to be reduced by 0.8 percent a month, beginning from January 1, 1983.) June 11. The Ministry of Finance modified the tax credit certificate from 9 percent to 7 percent on the f.o.b. value for exports of soya flour un t il November 30, 1982. June 11. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 12 percent on the f .o .b. value of exports of shampoo and of 15 percent on the f .o .b. value of exports of pure wool bed covers, until November 30, 1982. June 16. Decree No. 205/982 authorized the exports of bovine skin leather (wet blue) and established a subsidy of US$0.08 a kilogram, while extending the subsidy of bovine leather (wet blue) of US$0.21 a kilogram. July 12. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 7 percent on the f .o .b. value for exports of vehicle chassis with cabin until November 30, 1982. July 15. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 14 percent on the f .o .b. value for exports of cargo boxes for pickups until November 30, 1982. July 16. Decree No. 245/982 abolished the tax credit certificate for exports of leather cloth to the United States. August 4. The Ministry of Finance granted, until November 30, 1982, a tax credit certificate of 16 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of scarves made with synthetic materials; 7 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of glass covers for microscopes; 17 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of covers made with synthetic materials; and 15 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of sheet paper. August 30. The Ministry of Finance granted, until November 30, 1982, a tax credit certificate of 17 percent of the f.o.b. value for exports of felt made of pure wool; 9 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of copolymer of v inyl chloride; 9 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of sodium phthalate; 14 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of packing paper; and 20 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of individual boxes. September 2. Decree No. 315/982 reclassified combed wool and corned beef as nontraditional exports. September 14. The Ministry of Finance granted a tax credit certificate of 14 percent of f .o .b. value for exports of handmade combed wool products until November 30, 1982. October 28. The Ministry of Finance granted, until November 30, 1982, a tax credit certificate of 6 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of vegetable oil; 20 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of metal struc- tures; 14 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of tables made w i th common metals; and 20 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of glass bulbs. November 15. The Ministry of Finance extended to soya pellets the tax credit certificate on soya flour. November 26. Decree No. 412/982 abolished Decree No. 189/982, which established a 10 percent tax credit certificate on all exports and a 10 percent tariff surcharge on all imports; with effect from January 1, 1983, the var- ious tax credit certificates would be replaced by a system of reimbursement of indirect tax charges on all exports. December 8. Decree No. 441/982 introduced a system of reimbursement of 5 percent of indirect tax charges on all exports. December 10. The Ministry of Finance granted, until November 30, 1983, a tax credit certificate of 15 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of national paper for cor- respondence; 19 percent of the f .o .b. value for exports of costume jewelry; and 14 percent of f .o .b. value for exports of chains and furniture made w i th plastic. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanua tu is the Va tu. Since Septem- ber 10, 1981 the vatu has been pegged to the SDR at the rate of VT 106.20 = SDR 1. At present the Central Bank of Vanua tu does not buy or sell fore ign exchange. As a transitional arrangement, the Banque Indosuez Vanua tu, wh ich is at present the Government's main depository, quotes da i ly the rates of the va tu against 11 currencies1 on the basis of the ir respective SDR va lues. A spread of up to 0.8 percent is ma in ta ined by the Banque Indosuez Vanua tu about the in te rna t ional com- mercial buy ing and selling rates of those currencies in terms of the SDR for its purchases and sales of v a t u. The overall size of the spread in the local market therefore reflects differences between b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for foreign currencies in the in terna t ional ma rke t, and the Banque Indosuez V anu a tu 's marg in of 0.8 percent. On December 31, 1982 the buy ing and selling rates for the vatu (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 95 .13 per US$1 and VT 97.20 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Vanua tu formally accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ i remen ts. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made free ly. Imports and Import Payments Except for m inor quan t i ta t ive restrictions, all imports are freely permitted. Imports of potatoes and frozen chicken are temporarily suspended. Import du t ies are levied, ma in ly on an ad valorem basis ( c . i . f . ), on most imports. Imports not subject to ta r i ff du t ies in c lude l ive an ima l s, cereals, f lou r, m i lk powder, vege tab les, f r u i t s, pharmaceutical products, perfumes and cosmetics, pho- tographic equ ipmen t, jewe l ry, gold b u l l i on and co ins, and audio equ ipmen t. W i th certain excep t ions, impor ts are also subject to a customs service tax of 3 percent on basic necessities and 12 percent on certain nonessen t ial items. Imports of the central and local governmen ts are exempted from import duties and the customs service tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for i nv i s i b l e s. 'A u s t r a l i an do l la r, French f r an c, CFP f r a n c, F i ji d o l l a r, d eu t s che ma rk, Hong Kong do l lar, Japanese y e n, New Zea land d o l l a r, pound s te r l ing, Singapore do l la r, and U .S. do l la r. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from surrendered. inv i s ib les need not be Exports and Export Proceeds There are no restrictions on exports. Most exports are subject to export du t ies, ma in ly on an ad valorem basis ( f .o .b . ); specific du t ies are levied on some minor exports, i n c l u d i ng scrap metal and t imber. Export du t ies on copra are on a s l id ing scale basis. There are no surrender requ i remen ts for export proceeds. Exportation of trochus she l ls, green sna i ls, and crustaceans, in pa r t icu lar coconut crabs, is prohibited. Capital All inwa rd and ou tward movements of capital are free. Gold There are no res tr ic t ions on gold transactions. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement March 17. The Central Bank of V anu a tu announced on March 17, 1982 tha t, w i th effect from March 18, 1982, the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for Aus t ra l ian dollar notes and coins wou ld be at f ixed rates of VT 100 = $A 1 and VT 105 = $A 1, respectively. The fixed re la t ion sh ip was to rema in in force only for the period of rep lacement of Au s t ra l ian currency in c ircu la t ion w i th the v a t u. A comm iss ion of $A 0.05 on transactions i n v o l v i ng the w i t h d r aw al of Aus t ra l ian notes and coins by deb it of an Au s t ra l ian dollar account was also in troduced as a temporary measure, that is, un t il the comp le t ion of the currency exchange. March 22. The Central Bank of Vanua tu started the issue of new va tu notes to replace the ex is t ing currencies in c i rcu la t ion in V a n u a t u, inc lud ing the New Hebrides franc and the Au s t r a l i an do l lar. July 27. The buy ing and selling rates for Australian do l lar notes and coins were changed to VT 95 = $A 1 and VT 100 = $A 1, respectively. September 20. The b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for Au s t r a l i an do l lar notes and coins were changed to VT 91 - $A 1 and VT 96 = $A 1, respectively. December 1. V anu a tu accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Articles of Ag reement of the In terna t ional Monetary Fund. December 1. The Central Bank of V a n u a t u, w i th the approval of the M in i s t ry of F inance, informed the banks that (a) w i th effect from April 1, 1983, the old "FNH" notes wou ld cease to be legal tender in V anu a tu; (b) the A u s t r a l i an currency would no longer be considered o f f i c i a l ly as a c i r cu l a t ing currency in V anu a tu; (c) the f ixed exchange rates for buy ing and se l l ing Aus t ra l ian 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU notes and coins would continue only un t il March 31, 1983; and (d) the Central Bank would continue to purchase Australian currency from the banks at the prevailing fixed rates only un t il March 31, 1983. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The customs surcharge of 2 percent was abolished. Payments for Invisibles January 1. A tonnage tax and registration fees for ships on the Shipping Register were introduced, Exports and Export Proceeds April 5. The Vanua tu Commodities Marketing Board started export operations in copra as the sole exporter; previously, copra was exported by four private exporters. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar established by the Central Bank of Venezuela are Bs 4.28 and Bs 4.2925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' selling rate to the public is Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange transactions arising in connection with the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries of the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron industries take place at a selling rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. The Central Bank's buying rate in transactions with the public sector (other than the hydrocarbon and iron ore companies) and international organizations in which Venezuela has a participation or interest is Bs 4.2925 per US$1 .2 Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies3 are also officially quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained from the Central Bank. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in bank notes, coin, and traveler's checks. On September 27, 1982, an arrangement was in- stituted under which all foreign exchange earnings from the oil industry, iron production, and other government enterprises would be sold to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.2925 per US$1. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agricul- ture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) is charged with supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trademarks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Re- 1 On February 28, 1983 Venezuela established a temporary regime of a three-tier exchange market. 2The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the pub l ic but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, for travel expenses, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. 3Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs. public, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition, importation of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include iron and steel products and certain consumer durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restrictions are maintained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except for Andean Pact countries and LAI A countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South Africa. Import licenses for some goods are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity to be imported. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977) that has the power of prior authorization over all public sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to obtain letters of credit, exemption from import duties and, if necessary, financing. By Decree No. 2664 (April 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Institute was appointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance with the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission, contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the m in imum external tariff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tariffs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made from commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited, in princi- ple, to 20 percent a year of registered foreign capital, in accordance with Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 150 a person a trip; children under seven years, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organizations are exempted. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA the export of commodities subject to price controls or deemed to be in short supply domestically; for most commodities such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones and gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. There are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified m in imum amounts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Venezuela takes two basic forms: first, the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law (September 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incentive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates with a two-year maturity are granted to exporters of nontraditional products ( i .e ., basically exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic value added greater than 30 percent. These certificates can be held to maturity and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers for or by residents are permitted freely. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 percent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 percent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or 496 companies. This law also regulates the activities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among importers and exchange houses authorized by the Central Bank and the public. Commer- cial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among them- selves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user bu t, in practice, imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments February 11. The official c . i . f. prices for imports of automobile types produced domestically were announced. April 14. Imports of specified types of clothing and footwear were prohibited. May 4. Imports of men's clothing were prohibited. May 5. Imports of chocolate were subjected to license. June 11. As a part of a general revision of the import tariff system, duties were lowered on about 550 tariff items sometimes by as much as 95 percent and raised on more than 300 other tariff items by an average over 30 percentage points. The items covered by the tariff increases included agro-industrial products, glass and fiberglass, paper and cardboard, textile products, tools, leisure goods, photographic equipment, watches, and television sets. In addition, license requirements were eliminated for many tariff items. July 4. Duties on a number of agricultural products were changed. September 24. Import tariffs on a number of items were suspended until December 31, 1982. October 15. Special treatment was extended to some imports from Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Argentina, under the Montevideo Agreement of the LAIA. November 25. The National Executive prohibited importation of 213 types of merchandise, among which are nonessential foodstuffs, clothing, office equipment, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and hardware. The Government also reserved for itself the import of 55 items, including certain foodstuffs, chemicals, and motor vehicles; in addition, tariff rates were modified for items under certain headings, such as chemicals, sporting goods, and laboratory and technical equipment. Exports and Export Receipts August 9. Authorization was granted for potatoes and plantains to be exported without license. Payments for Invisibles September 17. The travel tax was raised to Bs 150 a person, Gold September 21. The Venezuelan authorities decided to raise the reference price of gold from US$42.22 to US$300, a troy ounce, thereby raising the book value of national gold reserves. VENEZUELA 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement On May 3, 1978 the North V ie tnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were w i thd r awn from c i rcu la- tion and a new cu r rency, the V ie tnamese Dong, was in troduced, w i th an o f f ic ial exchange rate of D 2.66358 = SDR 1, equ iva lent to D 2 . 17 = US$1. In p rac t ice, the exchange rate between the dong and the U . S. do l lar has been ma in ta ined w i t h in re la t ive ly narrow ma rg in s, wh i le the rate for the SDR has been le ft to f l u c t u a t e. On December 31, 1982 the m idd le rate for the U . S. do l lar was D 9.660 = US$1; and the o f f ic ial rate was D 10.356 = SDR 1. Viet Nam began to par t ic ipa te in the transferab le va lues system on J a n u a ry 1, 1981; the exchange rate for the t rans fe rab le rub le has been f ixed at D 16.235 = TR 1 since October 1, 1981. Exchange rates of the dong for certain foreign currencies are quo ted by the State Bank of V iet Nam on the basis of the cross rates of these currencies aga inst the U . S. do l la r. A p rem ium of 30 percent is app l ied to inwa rd transfers for amoun ts up to D 5,000 and 40 percent for amoun ts above D 5,000; receipts from tou r is ts in conver t ib le currenc ies are eligible for a f ixed p rem ium of 20 percen t. Since October 1981, a p rem ium rate of D 12 = US$1 has been applied to export proceeds of local corporations. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the State B ank. Foreign trade is adm in is tered by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade, wh ich authorizes the foreign trade transac t ions carried out by specialized state import-export corpora- tions or, in certain cases, cooperatives or state enter- prises. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade; approval is g iven for imports in excess of the Plan on the mer it of each app l ica t ion. Most foreign exchange transac t ions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the fore ign exchange transactions related to fore ign techn ical assistance are monitored by the Aid Reception Comm iss ion wh i ch is an agency d irec t ly attached to the Cab inet of the Prime M in is ter. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions w i th member coun t r ies of the Council for Mu tual Economic Ass is tance (CMEA ), A lban ia, the Lao People's Democratic R epub l i c, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea are settled e i ther under the CMEA transferab le rub le se t t lement system (Czechoslovakia, Cuba, Hung a ry, Mongo l ia, and U . S . S . R .) or through i n d i v i d u al b i la te ral c lea r ing ac- coun ts. Nontrade transac t ions w i th coun t r ies w i th w h i ch V iet Nam has bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts' take place at exchange rates specified in these ag reemen ts. ' At the end of 1982 V iet Nam had b i la te ral p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w i th e ight coun t r ies that were not membe rs of the IM F —A l b a n i a, Bu lg a r i a, Czecho s lovak ia, Ge rman Democ ra t ic R e p u b l i c, M o n g o l i a, Democratic People's R e p u b l ic of Korea, Po l and, and U . S . S . R ., and w i th seven IMF membe r s —Bang lade sh, Peop le 's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, H u n g a r y, Lao People's Democ ra t ic R e p u b l i c, M a l i, R om a n i a, and Syr ian A rab R e p u b l i c. 498 Nonresident Accounts Nonres iden ts are permitted to ma in ta in non res ident accoun ts e i ther in foreign currencies or in dong. Non res i- dents can free ly reconvert in to foreign currency and t rans fer abroad unused ba lances in V ie tnamese currency that have been acquired aga inst foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import p lan and an export p lan are d rawn up a n n u a l l y. In p r inc ip le, import and export transac t ions are carried out by about 14 central import-export corpora- tions and 10 local corporations. Local corporations mu st obtain specific approval from the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade to import and export. Some of these corporations have the ir own produc ing u n i t s, w h i le others contract w i th supp ly ing enterprises. A ll paymen ts for external trade transactions need the au thor iza t ion of the State Bank and are made th rough the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are no rma l ly channe led th rough the Bank for Foreign Trade, and any other receipts from fo re ign trade have to be surrendered to the State B ank. Adm in i s t ra t ive procedures were changed in A u g u st 1982 when exportation of 25 items became the mono- poly of the central export-import corporations, and all fore ign exchange proceeds were required to accrue d i rec t ly to the Central Gove rnmen t. Local corporations may procure and export these 25 exportable commod i t ies on ly after the cen t ra l ly set targets have been ach ieved. Other commod i t ies can be exported by local corporations sub ject to approval from the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. An export bonus system has been in operation since 1980 to provide add i t ional incen t ives for export p roduc t ion. By f u l f i l l i ng Plan targets, exporters earn a bonus of 2 percent to 10 percent of the va lue of p lanned exports, depend ing on the q u a l i ty and k ind of produc t; another bonus of 3-5 percent is earned on exports in excess of targets. State enterprises whose export earn ings exceed Plan targets can free ly import required inpu ts and cer ta in consumer goods up to the va lue of such excess. Local corporations (especially in the Sou th) are a l lowed to re ta in up to 90 percent of the ir export ea rn ings in fore ign exchange in a non- in teres t-bear ing and non t rans fe rab le resident foreign exchange accoun t, or sell them to the foreign exchange f u n d, or use them to import m a ch in e ry, raw ma ter ia ls, or certain essential ( n o n l u x u r y) consumer goods upon gu idance from the regional or local People's Comm i t tees. In the f i rst case, the Bank issues a ce r t i f ica te, wh i le in the second case, it buys the fore ign exchange at the o f f ic ial rate p lus some p r em ium, the size of wh i ch depends on the interest the Bank can earn on lend ing th is fore ign exchange to ano ther producer who wan ts to import (beyond his planned foreign exchange a l loca t ion ). Add i t ional incen t ives are provided for cer- ta in exporters in the form of a r ight to use for imports a portion of the net earn ings (def ined as export receipts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution less the cost of imported goods and interest cost of borrowed foreign exchange) ranging from 30 percent to 90 percent depending on the qua l i ty and type of product. Deposits in foreign currency are held at the Bank for Foreign Trade in the names of exporters, that is, the state-trading companies, or the regional trading com- panies, or the specialized state-private agencies. These deposits can be used to finance domestic purchases, in which case they are transferred to the name of the seller, and to finance certain non luxu ry imports. State enterprises have three export plans (primary, secondary, and tertiary). Primary export plans are formulated by the Government against deliveries of key inputs by the Government; secondary plans are set by the Government but without sufficient supply of inpu ts (e .g ., fuel) by the Government, thus leaving the task of procuring the needed inputs to the enterprises; tertiary plans are set freely by the producing un i t s, wh ich u t i l ize discarded materials. State enterprises whose export earnings exceed Plan targets can freely import required inputs and certain consumer goods up to the va lue of such excess. For imports from the nonconvertible area, annual credits in foreign exchange are allocated to importers on the basis of actual production capacity; in principle, such credits cannot be carried over from one year to another. For imports from the convertible area, although a similar foreign exchange allocation system exists in principle, it is not in use, as decisions to allocate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime Minister's Cabinet on a case-by- case basis, upon recommendations from the State Plan- ning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the M in is try of Foreign Trade, and specified Vice-Premiers. For transactions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived from their export earnings. Payments for Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require ind iv idual authorization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All VIET NAM travel abroad needs ind iv idual authorization, from the Prime M in is ter's Cabinet, and at present is limited to off ic ial business for wh ich all foreign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had left the country before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations as determined by the State Bank for each ind iv idual case. Receipts from transac- tions in invisibles have to be surrendered to the State Bank w i th in seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency needs the special permission of the State Bank. The circulation of foreign currency in the domestic market is prohibited. Legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for three forms of foreign investment: (1) investment in the production of goods intended solely for export; (2) jo int ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and (3) production-sharing part- nerships for the exploitation of natural resources. The share of foreign capital that is permitted ranges from 30 percent to 49 percent for jo int ventures and up to 100 percent for enterprises specializing in production for export. There are guarantees of repatriation of profits and of proper compensation in the event of nationalization. Gold The State Bank alone has authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement November 5. The system of U .S. dollar-denominated certificates in effect since August 1981 was dis- continued. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Since July 6, 1979 the value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar is determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that are considered important in determining that external value. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar. There is an exchange levy of 1 percent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 percent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of ex- change control rests with the Monetary Board, but the daily administration of exchange controls and the ex- change allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his authority to the Finance Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —powers to approve certain pay- ments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source. Each licensed commercial importer receives a quarterly allocation of foreign ex- change, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automobiles and certain other commodities requiring prior approval by the Monetary Board .l The allocations are made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which automatically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documentary evidence. Importers may carry over unutilized portions of allocations from quarter to quarter but not from year to year; advance allocations are not permitted. Foreign exchange for the import of essential commodities is provided freely on the basis of specified criteria. (The list of essential items is changed periodically by the Monetary Board.) Imports purchased under open account arrangements are financed from current allocations even if payments are not due until a later period. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a down payment of 50 percent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas contractual obligations and insurance, are approved automatically by the authorized banks up to individual limits of WS$5,000 for the public sector, WS$10,000 for outward remittances, and WS$10,000 for letters of credit. Payments in excess of these l im i ts, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Monetary Board. Remittances for study abroad are freely authorized. Approval of the Monetary Board is required in respect of all transfers of local earnings from dividends, interest, and pensions of overseas residents. Residents traveling overseas for business or private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$2,000 a person a year. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations against evidence of genuine need. Resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes, as part of their foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance to prevent domestic shortages. An export certificate validated by an authorized trading bank is required for exports of all goods in excess of WS$200. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Marketing Division on grounds of low qua l i ty, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Exports of copra are controlled by the Copra Board, exports of cocoa by the Cocoa Board, and exports of bananas by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 percent is imposed on the f .o .b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surren- 1 Flour, sugar, milk products, and spare parts for motor vehicles may be imported freely outside the allocation system. 2The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dered to the authorized banks within a reasonable time after shipment. Where exceptional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes, but no domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance, and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents to beneficiaries perma- nently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each family group. Foreign invest- ments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and WESTERN SAMOA profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments July 29. The Monetary Board adopted, as the goal to be achieved in the near fu ture, the free allocation of foreign exchange for all essential goods and services. All allocations of foreign exchange would be based on the following principles: (1) contribution of the import items to the economy, including spare parts and raw materials for manufacturing and services in terms of cultivating the land, providing employment for nationals, and buying and using of local raw materials; (2) contribution to export earnings from goods and services in the past five years; and (3) contribution in terms of the highest income tax paid to the Government in the past five years. August 16. The Monetary Board began to enforce the provisions of the Monetary Board Act 1979 and the Exchange Control Regulations 1961. August 31. The Monetary Board announced that it would no longer consider applications for advances of quarterly foreign exchange allocation. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 4.5 = US$1. (An exchange rate of YRls 5.0 = US$1 is used for customs valuation purposes.) Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Industry grants licenses for imports, with the exception of licenses for imports of food and cement, which are granted by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. All commercial banks and exchange dealers operate in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.2 Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Importation of certain items of used machinery for purposes of resale is also prohibited. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Com- pany. All other imports require licenses, which are issued freely. In addition to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of certain government agencies. Freight insurance on imports must be purchased locally. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from local banks. A margin deposit of 20 percent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for all imports. In addition to the applicable customs du ty, imports are 'Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2There is a bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt, which is inoperative. subject to a defense tax of 5 percent and a statistical tax of 2 percent. Imports shipped by land routes without licenses are subject to a surcharge of 7 percent of the c . i . f. value and to an advance payment of a profit tax of 3 percent of c . i . f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. All exports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Economy and Industry. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes, or of their capital. Certain tax and customs duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form w i thout an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1982 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and authorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1982 the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the market rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain pow- ers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in traveler's checks and bank notes, are classified into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordi- nary money changers, whose principal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers, and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the National Bank not later than the following business day. While the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public cor- porations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel are pro- hibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in convertible currencies and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Ac- counts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign bank notes (unless they have been declared to the customs on entry), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Ex- change Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Yemeni nationals working abroad may establish non- resident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. All imports require individual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt from the licensing require- ments. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of all consumer goods, with the exception of medical supplies and hospital equipment, which are handled by the National Company for Drugs. It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, of all government requirements, and of most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties, except that the proceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender requirement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to undertake to repatriate in convertible currencies commissions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the author- ized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The "Inducement to Invest Law" divides foreign investments into two categories: (1) projects which realize self-sufficiency in their requirements for foreign currency; these may remit net annual profits due on invested capital within the limit of the credit of their exports; and (2) projects of primary importance for the national economy; these may remit the whole of the annual net profits due on capital invested. Projects which were set up prior to 1971 may remit all of their net profit. The basic exchange allow- ance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in traveler's checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coin (50 percent of this amount for children under ten ) .! Allowances for medical treatment abroad are normally granted up to the equivalent of YD 200 a person, with higher amounts under exceptional circumstances. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employ- ees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 percent and 100 percent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 percent of their total earnings. Nonnationals doing business in the country can remit abroad up to YD 50 a month for fam i ly maintenance. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bank notes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange de- clared upon entry. 'The equivalent of YD 75 for Bah ra in, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuw a i t, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Repub l ic, and United Arab Emirates. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to Y R ls 1,000 in Yemen rials. 504 Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to individual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Ex- change Committee, export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies w i th in six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to nonresidents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 percent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their entire savings to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under The Inducement to Invest Law (enacted in 1981) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. Five years after investment, the net value of the enterprise (cal- culated on the basis of assignment actual liquidation, or book value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 percent a year; if, however, the owner of the Yemeni, Arab, or foreign capital encounters operational d iff icu l t ies, his capital may, upon approval, be retrans- ferred to its place of origin one year after entry. This provision also applies to the reinvested part of such capital. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Projects authorized under this law are exempt from income tax for up to five years from the commencement of production and may carry losses forward. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Committee must also be obtained. Departing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 tolas,2 subject to registration in their passports. Arriving female nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas duty free and up to an additional 75 tolas after paying import duty at a rate of 30 percent. Arriving male nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 90 tolas of which 10 tolas are duty free. Changes during 1982 Gold April 1. The limit on gold ornaments which could be brought into the country by female nationals was raised from 50 tolas to 100 tolas (of which 25 tolas was made duty free) and those which could be brought in by male nationals, from 40 tolas to 90 tolas (of which 10 tolas were duty free). 2One tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 3J, 1982)1 Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not maintain the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins, and therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries w i th wh ich Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market, when neces- sary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1982 were Din 62.3928 and Din 62.5802, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U .S. dollar for transactions on bilateral accounts was Din 55.1358 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.2 Administration of Exchange Control The Federal Assembly formulates the decision on foreign exchange policy of the country for each year; the projections of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are component parts of this decision. The projections contain the mu tua l ly adjusted plans of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balances of the republics and autonomous provinces, as well as the foreign exchange expenditures and revenues of the Federation. A self-managing com- munity of interest for foreign economic relations has been set up in each republic and autonomous province. On the basis of uniform criteria prescribed by the Yugoslav Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations, members of republican and provincial com- munities conclude agreements and prescribe policies to be followed to achieve the agreed volume of exports of goods and services, as well as the procedure for borrowing and lending abroad, under internal self- management agreements. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing certain foreign trade transac- tions and issues import and export licenses and instruc- tions when required. It is also charged w i th securing balanced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of 'A new law amending and supplementing the law on foreign exchange operations and credit relations w i th foreign countries entered into effect on January 1, 1983. The law introduces major changes regarding surrender requirements for export proceeds. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti d inars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 506 Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autonomous provinces administer the exchange controls. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: (1) Fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions w i th foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugos- lavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( inc lud ing the granting of guarantees). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign ex- change accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized ex- change offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through eco- nomic organizations that are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Resident physical persons may not engage in foreign trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set forth in those agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring denomination of transactions in clearing U .S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Mongolia, and the U .S .S .R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: for- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in dinars with fu l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars, with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the currency deposited.3 Balances held in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convert- ible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain foreign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may freely open nonresident accounts in dinars w i th authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely w i th amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized, and they may be used for payments for goods and services and other payments in Yugoslavia and for transfers abroad or to other foreign persons. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immediate family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions, disability allowances, compensations to per- sons decorated w i th the Order of the National Hero, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies w i th any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the foreign currency deposited and bear interest, which is paid in the same foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indefinitely and although cash withdrawals are limited to US$250 a month, other payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his im- mediate family can be made freely; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia, subject to the same l im i ta t ions. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in foreign 3 Accounts may be denominated in any of the fo l low ing currencies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l la rs. YUGOSLAVIA trade. Most major industrial producers are so registered, in addition to economic organizations that specialize in foreign trade. For import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as hard wheat, rice, butter, and special kinds of edible oil, quotas are fixed by the Federal Executive Council; importation of such goods is carried out either by particular economic organizations or through the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not re- qu ired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenc la ture are classified in three categories: LB —lib- eralized goods; RK and DK—goods subject to quan t i ty or va lue quotas; D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are ma in ly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quan t i ta t ive restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for imports from the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of self-management agreements concluded w i th in the self-management communities of interest in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Imports under commodity quotas (RK list or DK list) are raw materials, manufacturing components, equip- men t, and consumer goods; l im i ts are established for certain other goods. The quotas are established either in quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK). The allocation among importers of goods subject to quota is decided by agreement among the economic organizations within the Chamber of Economy of Yugoslavia.4 Additional quotas may be allocated dur ing the year if the enterprise to wh ich the quota is allocated undertakes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, firearms and amm u n i t i o n, petroleum, certain types of lubricants, drugs, and na tural gas. Import licenses are required only for l ist D commodities. For certain goods there is an additional requirement of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1982 goods subject to th is requirement comprised 71 LB items, 13 RK items, and 2 DK items. The items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fru i ts, raw materials, cocoa butter, fats and oils, raw cotton, tex- tiles, and tin; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct importation from the country of origin. 4In pr inc ip le, any such allocation among importers must be agreed on among economic organ iza t ions w i t h in the Chamber of Economy according to projections of ma te r ial balances for each commod i ty, wh i ch are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the importers are unab le to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established pr inc ip les, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the d i s t r i b u t i o n. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing w i th them and for purchases of certain domestically produced goods w i th dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely import machinery for small farms or equipment for hand icraft production, up to Din 120,000 a shipment, and manufac- turing components, up to Din 40,000 a shipment. Yugoslav nationals who have worked at least one year abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, as well as certain acoustic equipment exceeding Din 6,000 in value, provided that these are imported within a six- month period from the date of return and through a registered enterprise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importa- tion, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. A 1 percent tax for customs evidence and a 6 percent tax-equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs du ty. Many agricultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Returning resident travelers may bring in du ty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for fu ll or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fu l ly liberalized. Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to exporters. Pay- ments for other invisibles may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds or from the foreign exchange accounts of organizations of associated labor on the basis of self-management agreements within the self-management communities of interest of the republics and autonomous provinces. Purchases of ser- vices abroad, as well as spare parts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international freight and passenger transportation, are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances from their foreign exchange accounts for tourist travel abroad. 508 Under specified conditions, the following transfers may be effected abroad: payments for improving labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, and pay- ments to recipients of an Order of the National Hero, a l imony paymen ts, payments for court-ordered compen- sations or indemn i t ies, the profits of foreign contractors performing capital construction work in Yugoslavia, 10 percent of the proceeds from cu l tura l, entertainment, sport, and other performances given by foreign groups or ind iv idua l s. In add i t ion, copyright royalties are transfer- able abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity and if foreign exchange resources have been provided. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fu l ly transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country w i th which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral paymen ts arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Transfers to convertible currency countries of funds realized by nonresidents by selling property inherited in Yugoslavia can be effected on the basis of the approval of the Federal Secretariat for Finance under conditions of reciprocity in inheritances and in transfers. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to resi- dents for payment of medical treatment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate authorities in the republics and autonomous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers on the first trip during the year, and Din 200 a person can be taken out on subsequent trips dur ing the same year. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange w i thout declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation with foreign countries, as well as through purchases on the foreign exchange market, belongs to the particular organizations of associated labor that have taken part in its realization. An organization of associated labor may keep earned foreign exchange on the foreign exchange account, may sell it to an authorized bank, or may use it for its own payments abroad in accordance with the ex is t ing regulations.5 In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domestic market ( inc lud ing petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain livestock, vegetable oils) and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs require licenses. 5 A new law amend ing and supp lemen t ing the law on foreign exchange operations and credit relations w i th foreign countries, which came into effect on January 1, 1983, retained the principle that earned foreign exchange belongs to the exporters but can be disposed of upon settlement of legal ob l iga t ions, inc lud ing own debt and credit obliga- tions toward foreign countries, according to the agreement of the organizations of associated labor, reached w i t h in the ac t iv i ty branches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, or within 180 days under specified condi- tions. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight-deposit accounts, which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Ex- change on these accounts may be used in accordance with self-management agreements w i th in the individual republics and autonomous provinces. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering services is subject to approval ("accordance") by the Federal Com- mittee for Energy and Industry. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected w i th the activi- ties of the economic organization concerned, inc lud ing payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferabte to Yugoslavia within 30 days from work completion and belong to the economic organizations that have earned them, or they can be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific ar- rangements between Yugoslavia and foreign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest- bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited w i th the fu ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate family; cash withdrawals are limited to US$250 a month and they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav bank notes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers on the first trip during the year, and on subsequent trips during the same year not more than Din 200. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance w i th self-management agreements concluded w i th in the com- munities of interest for foreign economic relations of the republics and autonomous provinces. Medium-term and long-term borrowing are subject to approval by the National Bank, while new short-term borrowing requires approval by the Federal Executive Council. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic orga- nizations but only through joint ventures; apart from exceptional cases, such foreign investment is limited to YUGOSLAVIA 49 percent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted up to one half of the jo int venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Realized profits from investments in organizations of associated labor in underdeveloped republics and the Province of Kosovo may be repatriated in fu l l. If the law governing jo int ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire l i fe of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated w i th in 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign ex- change held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations w ish ing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by federal law; such capital should be registered w i th the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain commemora- tive gold coins, wh ich are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coin in Yugos lav ia but cannot export them. Such gold coin may be sold to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewe lry and other articles of gold in accordance w i th the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious me ta ls. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewe lry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coin. Producers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the international gold market. Domestic sales of new ly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price wh ich equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization ind iv idua l ly. Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement October 22. The d inar was devalued by 16.7 percent against the U .S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments May 22. A law on the disposal and use of convertible currency earnings and external borrowing in 1982 came 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA into effect, requiring that priority be given to the settlement of debt-servicing obligations over other foreign payments. October 18. Importation of personal belongings and gifts by Yugoslav nationals returning from abroad was limited to the equivalent of Din 1,500, and the direct importation by residents for household use was pro- hibited, with the exception of imports by holders of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav workers temporarily or permanently employed abroad (Gazette 62). October 24. The exemption from customs duties of goods imported by mail for personal use was abolished (Gazette 61). Exports and Export Proceeds May 22. A law on the disposal and use of convertible currency earnings and external borrowing in 1982 came into effect, requiring that priority be given to the settlement of debt-servicing obligations over other foreign payments. Under the same law, the maximum period for the repatriation of export earnings was reduced from 90 days to 60 days. Proceeds from and Payments for Invisibles October 18. Yugoslav nationals traveling beyond the national borders as tourists were each required to place a deposit of Din 5,000 with specified banks for the first border crossing; additional deposits of Din 2,000 on each occasion would be required for subsequent crossings within the same year. The deposits would be blocked for one year without interest. Persons in border regions would be allowed to cross the border five times a year in small border traffic without such deposits (Gazette 62). Exceptions are provided for citizens working abroad, their families, for business travel, and for travel for medical treatment. October 22. Trade in foreign currencies, checks, and letters of credit among residents and between residents and nonresidents was prohibited. In addition, the exemp- tion from domestic sales tax of goods purchased with proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange was abol- ished, together with exemptions from customs duties for goods imported by mail for personal use (Gazettes 61 and 64). Capital May 22. A law on the disposal and use of foreign currency earnings and external borrowing in 1982 came into effect, requiring that priority be given to the settlement of debt-servicing obligations over other foreign payments. Under the same law, medium-term and long-term foreign borrowing were made subject to prior written approval by the National Bank, and short- term borrowing to that of the Federal Executive Council. 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire, which is pegged to the SDR; effective June 19, 1981 the external value of the zai're was fixed at Z 1 = SDR 0.1575. Exchange rates for the 20 currencies in which authorized banks are permitted to deall are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) on the basis of the SDR rate. On December 31, 1982 the rate for the U .S. dollar was Z 5.74633 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. In addition to a commission charge, pur- chases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to an exchange control fee. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments; this includes discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including guarantees extended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guaran- teed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of another currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Payments to nonresidents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies. However, certain set- tlements with Angola, Burundi, and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire w i th the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled on a quarterly basis in convertible currencies. Virtually all settlements (other than for re- exports) with the member countries of the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC)2 are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de Compensation de 1'Afrique Centrale). 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 2Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zai'res, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zai'res. Nonresident Accounts in Zai'res may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zai're, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited freely; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zai'res maintained by residents or to Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, for sales of foreign currency, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nationals require special authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zai'res may be credited with amounts converted from foreign currency at the official rate, transfers from another Convertible Account in Zai'res, or authorized payments by residents to nonresi- dents; they may be debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any payments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services except for listed items exported to Burundi and Rwanda and exchange pur- chases from tourists from these countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to a foreign exchange allocation system (coefficients de preaffectation). The system limits each bank's financing of imports of specified consumer goods and pharmaceuticals to 30 percent of its export proceeds which are not surrendered either to the Bank of Zaire or to the exporters. The other coefficients are 45 percent for raw materials, intermediate goods, chemical products, spare parts, and utility vehicles, and 25 percent for invisibles. In the case of invisible receipts, the commercial banks are required either to surrender them to the Bank of Zai're or use them to increase any of the coefficients mentioned above or to finance imports of specified commodities or under specified terms. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, am- munition, and narcotics. The importation of specified luxu ry items (including high-powered automobiles, cer- tain types of jewelry, and furniture) is prohibited for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than priority items (mainly food- s tuffs, pharmaceuticals, raw materials, and industrial 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE spare parts), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is controlled for protective reasons, while import licenses for other items produced domestically, but not in sufficient quantities, are only issued on the basis of an authorization from the Depart- ment of National Economy. Raw materials, semipro- cessed goods, and spare parts may be imported for the production of finished and semifinished goods for re- export provided that payment for such re-export is made fully in the form of either foreign exchange or imported merchandise. Settlements for imports may be made through confirmed irrevocable letters of credit. For most goods subject to license, the importer must obtain a credit of at least 90 days; payments upon shipment are authorized provided that the importer obtains a 6 percent rebate on the f .o .b. value. Imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zaire are subject to import declarations, which do not require the prior approval of the Bank. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zairois de Controle (OzAC). Applications for import licenses are submitted through authorized banks, wh ich, after certification, forward them to the Bank of Zaire for approval. The import license application is then returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks and import declarations registered by them remain valid for customs clearance for six months, and the validity may be extended further if shipment has begun. Extension of the validity period requires autho- rization from the Bank of Zaire. Nonprohibited imports financed without recourse to the foreign exchange resources of the banking system (i.e., sans achat de devise or SAD) are subject to import declaration requirements and to the control procedures of OZAC. Shipment must be effected within six months from the date of registration of the import declaration. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangements between Zaire and certain countries, such as Be lg ium, Canada, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain, Japan, the United States, etc ., are governed by separate provisions. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized at the Bank of Zaire, which is in the process of settling them in accordance with policy priorities, due dates, and the availability of foreign exchange. Arrears on payments due to official creditors and to some commercial banks have been the subject of refinancing agreements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are limited to 25 percent of each bank's retained merchandise export earnings; in specified cases, such payments may also be effected with receipts from invisibles. All payments are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of 512 commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice. For other items, declarations of foreign exchange commitment are subject to prior approval by the Bank of Zaire. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon shipment; they may also effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment for imports payable upon arrival, provided that the payment is made direct to the carrier. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are trans- ported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zairoise. Imports transported by an air carrier other than Air Zaire require the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. Medical and pharmaceutical expenses incurred by expatriate personnel on leave are no longer reimbursable. Outward remittances of remunerations by expatriate employees during 1982 were limited to the level authorized during 1981. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the transfer abroad of salaries of expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary for new recruits, provided that the nontransferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation have been suspended except where the transfer of such profits is expressly guaranteed by the Investment Code or by bilateral agreements. Transfers of nonresidents' rental income are suspended. Payments for commissions, management and miscel- laneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in Zaire for trips starting in Zaire. However, residents of Zairian nationality may travel by a foreign airline only with the permission of the Department of Transportation and Communication. Resident expatriates are, in general, permitted once a year to purchase in domestic currency a direct round-trip ticket to their country of origin. Zairian nationals traveling abroad on official missions may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the status of the traveler. Foreign exchange for travel and for medical expenses are suspended, and all official travel abroad must be author- ized by the First Government Commissioner. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled once a month to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The export (as well as import) of domestic bank notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations re- quire individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for three months; w i th in this period, the proceeds must be received and sur- rendered. Banks are required to surrender to the Bank of Zaire 30 percent of export receipts surrendered to them. Producer-exporters generally are permitted to retain 15 percent of their export receipts for authorized uses. For coffee exporters, the retention quotas are 20 percent for those who also plant and process, 15 percent for those who process, and 10 percent for those who only export. Coffee may be exported only by recognized coffee exporters; such exports are subject to quality control. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAMINES), which is marketed exclusively by the Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SOZACOM) or its subsidiary, Societe Zairoise (SozAREX). On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAMINES with a provisional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimated value and w i th the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is authorized to retain 45 percent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds as well as any end-of-month balances on retained earnings in excess of Belgian francs 800 million to the Bank of Zaire. After deduction of marketing costs, SOZACOM is required to surrender its export proceeds to the Bank of Zaire and to the producers. Partial nonrepatriation and retention are also permitted for the metal exports of the Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA). The diamond exports of the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (MlBA) are marketed exclusively by SOZACOM. SOZACOM also mar- kets diamonds from small producers; exchange receipts from such sales are placed in a special foreign currency account, which may be debited for the benefit of diamond sellers or third parties, provided that the foreign currency remains credited to the beneficiaries' special accounts and the zaire equivalent received is credited to another special SOZACOM account. The zaire equivalent of foreign currency placed in special accounts is deter- mined by applying to the official rates an adjustment coefficient regularly set by OFIDA. Receipts from ag- ricultural exports must generally be repatriated w i th in three months of validation. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cacao, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. ZAIRE Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained by the authorized banks. Provided that they make the necessary declaration, nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred during their stay in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guaranteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not authorized. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by departmental ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Arrears on prin- cipal payable to official creditors and some commercial banks are the subject of consolidation agreements. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities and producers of gold are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form. With the exception of jewelry, imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Gold produced by mining companies is purchased by the Bank of Zaire under agreed terms. The Bank of Zaire may authorize part of the gold produced by these companies to be sold to residents for their industrial activities. Domestic gold mined by small-scale producers may be purchased or exported only by persons authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Export receipts in foreign currency must be placed in the exporters' special accounts. Exporters may use their holdings to purchase gold from producers or transfer them to third parties against zaires, provided that such foreign exchange is credited to the buyer's or a third party's special account and that the zaires are credited to the exporter's special account. The zaire equivalent of foreign currency is obtained by applying the official rates and adjustment coefficient set periodically by OFIDA. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments January 14. Circular No. 181 was issued, authorizing imports of raw materials, semiprocessed goods, and spare parts for the production of finished and semi- finished goods for re-export, provided that payment for the fu ll value of such re-exports was made in the form of either foreign exchange or imported merchandise. Prescription of Currency February 2. Circular No. 184 came into effect requiring virtually all settlements other than in respect of re-exports between Zaire and members of the BE AC to be channeled through the Central African Clearing 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE House (consisting of the members of the BEAC nations and Zaire). Exports and Export Proceeds March 15. It was announced that in order to qualify as a recognized coffee exporter one should (a) own one or more coffee plantations totaling at least 200 hectares, and (b) show proof of export in the preceding coffee year of at least 50 metric tons of export-quality coffee. (Those not eligible on these criteria could export coffee either via the Office Zai'roise du Cafe (OzACAF) or through recognized coffee exporters.) In addition, it was an- nounced that besides the quality certificate issued by OZACAF, all coffee for export would be required to bear a quality control visa granted by OZAC. Gold April 2. Circular No. 186 was introduced, stipulating that gold mined by small-scale producers could be purchased only by special agents authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Payment for such gold could be made in either local or foreign currency: if in foreign currency, the recipients should deposit the receipt in a special foreign currency account in their names. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Since March 17, 1978 the middle rate for the kwacha has been fixed at K 1 = SDR 0.976311. Zambia avails itself of margins of 2.5 percent around that fixed relationship. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar are based on the daily calculation of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U .S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 percent for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.50 percent for sales. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for sales and pur- chases of U.S. dollars, and 1.50 percent for sales and purchases of other currencies, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import and export li- censes. Overall import policy is determined by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for im- ports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. All permitted commercial transactions with residents of Zimbabwe are subject to the same exchange control provisions as are applied to any External Account country. However, restrictions on the repatriation of blocked assets of residents of Zimbabwe remain unchanged for the time being (see also section on Nonresident Accounts, below). 'On January 7, 1983, the kwacha was devalued by 20 percent against the SDR. xxx Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of other countries are designated External Accounts.2 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allowance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest on existing blocked assets due a resident of Zimbabwe. Following the lifting of sanctions against Zimbabwe, balances in previously Blocked Accounts of Zimbabwean residents remain nontransferable pending agreement on settlement of Zambian residents' Blocked Accounts in Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments The import from all countries of certain specified commodities is prohibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, sam- ples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no payment may be made for goods not licensed, even where the value is less than K 50. The import of goods up to a value of K 500 that does not involve a remittance of foreign exchange is also exempt from a licensing requirement. The two major mining companies and the Ministry of Health are granted priority for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require individual import licenses. 2 Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission of the exchange control authorities before designating any new External Account except where the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Import licensing aims at containing imports w i th in a half-yearly exchange allocation established by the Minis- try of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. However, subject to approval, imports may be licensed without allocation of exchange. All imports under ind iv idual licensing are divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Classification system and into end- use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally, raw materials, intermediate goods for further processing in Zamb ia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable con- sumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for items that are also produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank, including a clean report of f ind ings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which verifies the price, qua l i ty, and quan t i ty in the country of origin or shipment. Importers must obtain the approval of the Bank of Zambia before letters of credit can be opened by the commercial banks, and all financial arrangements be- tween importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zambia. All imports except those financed by suppliers' credits must be financed by letters of credit with m in imum terms of 90 days. The commercial banks are notified every six months about the max imum amount of letters of credit that each bank may open. Importers intending to import goods not invo lv ing use of off ic ial foreign exchange must obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia before applying to the M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry for a "no currency" import license. Importers must have the import license approved by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange Alloca- tion before presenting it for approval by the Bank of Zambia and subsequently to the commercial banks for the issuance of letters of credit. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, g iv ing specified pieces of information. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 12.50 percent of taxable va lue, wh ich is calculated as the sum of (1) 120 percent of the customs value; (2) the applicable customs du ty; and (3) 25 percent of the sum of (1) and (2). Certain import payments are in arrears; these arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Zambia is settling them in accordance w i th certain priorities. each calendar year. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 120 a person a day for up to 15 days a calendar year and is limited to two trips a year; exchange for this purpose may also be provided by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the ex- change control authorities. Exchange is provided, sub- ject to certain l im i ts, for other purposes such as educa- tion and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding these l im i ts may be granted by the exchange control authorities, if they are satisfied that exceptional treatment is ju s t i f ied. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, adm in is t ra t ive, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing contracts, and that these services cannot be provided domes t ica l ly .3 Profits and dividends of sub- sidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 percent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 percent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is sma l le r .4 Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits including profits earned from a partnership or private limited company engaged in fa rm ing. A further 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zamb ia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Any a ir l ine not land ing and picking up passengers in Zambia is not allowed to rem it funds abroad except for those funds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign na t iona ls employed in Zambia on a contract made after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings (subject to a max imum of K 7,000) to the coun try nominated when the contract was registered w i th the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these ar- rangements are not en t i t led to the regular allowances for trave l, educa t ion, ma in tenance, etc.; their leave salary, gra tu i ty, and other terminal benefits are transferable only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for fam i ly ma in tenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a max imum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain current paymen ts for inv is ib les are in arrears. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are, in general, permitted to provide foreign exchange up to 40 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports to cover freight and other charges. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 500 an adu lt for ^S e rv i c es rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or w h o l ly owned sub s id i a ry in Zamb ia are not generally approved. 4An aud i to r 's cer t if ica te mu st be subm i t ted to the effect that the amount to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the yea r 's operations a f ter f u ll prov is ion has been made for local taxa t ion. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of w h i ch app l ica t ion is being made must also be subm i t ted. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agreements w i th the mining companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. All exports must be financed through irrevocable letters of credit and be registered with the Bank of Zambia. Unless evidence of conversion of at least an equivalent amount in exchange can be provided, hotel bills payable by nonresidents must be settled in foreign exchange. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign exchange, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, or soybean sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incentives for national agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies con- trolled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 2. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities or savings of foreign exchange. ZAMBIA In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subse- quent disposal of these securities, the sales proceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a max imum of K 5,000 for a fam i ly un i t. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a max imum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compensa- tion payments, up to one third of leave pay, and terminal benefits up to a max imum of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is exported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1982 Imports and Import Payments August 23. A regulation was introduced that importers should submit approved import bills to the Bank of Zambia for prior approval one month before maturity, attaching a certified copy of import license, documentary evidence of receipts of goods in Zambia, and supplier's (or final) invoices. Payments for Invisibles January 13. The restriction on holiday allowances, in force since November 24, 1981, was lifted; henceforth, authorized dealers may issue tourist allowances to their 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA customers in any amount without recourse to the Bank of Zambia, provided the total amount issued to each adult in a calendar year would not exceed the equivalent of K 500. February 3. A levy of 10 percent was imposed on sales of foreign exchange for foreign travel and education. February 8. Foreign exchange sales for the following purposes were exempted from the 10 percent levy imposed on February 3, 1982: travel undertaken on party and government business, approved medical expenses, and government-sponsored scholarships. March 19. In line with the changed regulations on foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel and medical treatment abroad, the Bank of Zambia amended its circular dated June 28, 1977, thereby allowing authorized dealers to issue such allowances to applicants who might be neither their customers nor hold bank accounts with the banks, provided that the basic require- ments governing issuance of such allowances were met, including the rule that the travel allowance being sought had not been obtained from another dealer. April 15. The 10 percent levy on the kwacha equiva- lent of sales of foreign currency for education abroad was waived retroactive to February 3, 1982. September 3. Authorized dealers were reminded of the circular dated October 16, 1979 which prohibited autho- rized dealers from repaying overdue interest on import bills unless the Bank of Zambia released foreign ex- change specifically for payments for such interest. September 21. It was announced that business travel allowance to all civil servants and employees of para- statal organizations would be granted only on the production of Cabinet authorization to travel. October 1. Authorized dealers were informed that the commuted value of ZAMINEX pensions (pensions for mine expatriate workers) eligible for remittance was subject to a maximum of K 10,000. Specific applications accompanied by the necessary supporting documentation were also required to be submitted to the Bank of Zambia for prior approval. October 4. Authorized dealers were informed that their authority to approve business and tourist travel allowances was withdrawn. October 6. In compliance with the circular dated October 4, 1982 concerning business and tourist travel allowances, the Bank of Zambia clarified the detailed procedure for the submission of applications. October 8. Authorization of foreign exchange allow- ances for tourist travel was suspended with immediate effect. Authorized dealers were informed (a) that the general permission given to holders of Established Resident Permits working on contract was withdrawn, and (b) that the facility whereby gratuities were remit- table at the completion of a contract, whether or not the person was emigrating, was cancelled. Gratuities would be eligible for remittance only at the time of the applicant's emigration from Zambia. The amounts re- mittable remained at K 8,000 maximum. October 12. Authorized dealers were informed that no foreign exchange would be provided for students pursu- ing primary school courses abroad. October 27. Authorized dealers were informed of the restriction of foreign exchange cover for studies to (a) secondary school education, and (b) post-secondary school education (e .g ., university and college). November 9. Changes were made in existing regula- tions as follows: (a) Following the suspension of tourist travel allowances advised in circular dated October 8, 1982, and in order to ascertain the source of foreign exchange used abroad, no air ticket would be issued unless a person obtained Form AT (Air Travel) approved by the Bank of Zambia or was issued foreign exchange by an authorized dealer for travel abroad under a specific permit issued by the Bank of Zambia; (b) prior to issuance of air ticket(s) in favor of nonresidents of Zambia for international travel, the issuing office was required to ensure that such ticket(s) were being issued only in exchange for foreign currency or paid for by check drawn on an external account; and (c) with immediate effec t, a requirement was introduced that the Bank of Zambia should be advised in writing within one week when cancellations or refund of air passages abroad occurred. Exports and Export Proceeds October 27. All exporters, except for Zambia Con- solidated Copper Mines, were henceforth required to register with the Bank of Zambia before they could be refunded 50 percent of their export proceeds in accor- dance with current government directives; when regis- tering, however, exporters were required to continue to submit copies of export licenses and irrevocable letters of credit. 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dollar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of fixed relationships to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U .S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 31, 1982 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Reserve Bank in its dealings with authorized dealers were US$1.0920 and US$1.0832, respectively, per Z$ l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or premium rates for major currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in terms of the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended, the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended, the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979, the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979, and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currenc ies ,1 w i th the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. There are no bilateral payments agreements. 'There are 17 denominated currencies which are freely convertible through authorized dealers: Au s t r ian sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, South A f r ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened w i th the ap- proval of the exchange control authorities by persons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be credited w i th foreign currencies, w i th payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be deb- ited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside of Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. (At present the OGIL covers very few items .) Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are made available by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Trade and Commerce for three-month periods. The latter M in is try is responsible for the detailed distribution of allocations to the various sectors, both public and private, on a priority basis. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essentiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of employment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign ex- change allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive through the Ministry of Industry and Energy Development separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange ava i lab i l i ty, wh i le the latter is adjusted in the light of actual export performance over the previous 12-month period. Allocations granted dur- ing the first and third quarters of the year may be carried forward and added to those granted in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal va l id i ty of import licenses is six mon ths from the end of the month of issue, but the va l id i ty period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are no rma l ly issued w i thout geographical restriction and importers are free to choose the country of 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o .b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permis- sion of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied in the case of certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists ma in ly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 40 percent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of 15 percent or 18 percent, which is the countervailing levy to the sales tax imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestic- ally. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 15 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$50 a day up to a max imum of Z$360 for a 12- month period. The allowance may be accumulated up to three years but it is not granted in advance. (Children under ten are entitled to one half of these amounts.) The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is Z$100 a day up to a max imum of Z$l ,500 a trip, w i th an overall annual maximum of Z$3,000. For business travel to Europe and the United States, an additional allowance may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Applications for business travel allowance exceeding Z$l ,500 are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level, w i th in the fo l low ing limits: Z$2,750 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United K ingdom, and Z$6,000 a year for education at un ivers i t ies in the United States and the United K ingdom. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a max imum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remittances of up to Z$40 for subscriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$50. Remittances 520 to close relatives permanently resident outside Zim- babwe, not exceeding Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each fam i ly un i t, are permitted w i th the approval of the Reserve Bank. As regards remittances of dividends and profits, shareholders may freely remit all declared dividends for f inanc ial years ending on or after March 31, 1981 (or June 30, 1980 for those whose dividends were not blocked prev ious ly), provided that the total so declared by a company does not exceed 50 percent of the company's after-tax profits. Dividends in excess of 50 percent of the after-tax profits of companies in favor of nonresidents are blocked, but these limitations do not apply to ind iv idual shareholders who have never been resident in Z imbabwe. Blocked d iv idends, interest, and other incomes ( inc lud ing 50 percent of after-tax branch profits) that had accrued dur ing the period 1965-73 to companies (except insurance companies) domiciled in previously designated countries (Canada, the United K ingdom, and the Un i ted States) are released over a six- year period by means of special, tax-free, six-year government bonds w i th an annual interest rate of 4 percent; one s ix th of such bonds would be redeemable annua l ly from the end of the first year. Interest accruing from Ju ly 1, 1980 on all blocked funds of companies and corporations domiciled in the designated countries is freely transferable, as is all interest accruing in favor of ind iv idua ls resident in the former designated countries (subject to a m ax imum of Z$15,000 a year for former residents). Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; (3) fam i ly un i ts and single persons w i th dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$l ,000; (4) fam i ly un i ts (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$ 10,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$ 10,000; and (7) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A further release of capital is made as an annual allowance on the anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000 and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Emigrants who left Zimbabwe prior to January 1, 1980 and who had blocked assets in Zimbabwe not exceeding Z$l ,000 may apply for the immediate release of such fund s; those w i th blocked assets of more than Z$ 1,000 but less than Z$3,000 may also apply for the release of such funds through placement in the above-mentioned special gov- ernment bonds. 'A traveler leaving Zimbabwe may take out not more than Z$20 in Zimbabwean currency together with a max- imum of the equ iva lent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks they imported less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zim- babwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies against presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products which are not covered by the OGIL; these include (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammon ium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export licensing require- ments are intended to ensure adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported w i thout permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or w i ll be so made within three months from the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received w i th in 90 days in the following manner: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respec- tively. In addition, exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to author- ized dealers. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are required to be sold to authorized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restrictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized deal- ers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maximum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, which are undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requirement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the estab- lished medium of six-year, 4 percent a year interest, tax- free government bonds. ZIMBABWE The repatriation of capital invested before Septem- ber 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in six-year, 4 percent a year interest, tax-free government bonds. Income accruing in Zimbabwe to former residents who have emigrated is remittable up to an annual limit of Z$15,000. The remittability of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resident is guaranteed under the Constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unmanufactured form is con- trolled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The administration of the Order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The import of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act. The Act provides for certain require- ments to be met where a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; or (2) he is the holder or distributor of a registered m in ing location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is author- ized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the law ful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quan t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can only be issued by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank International Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge w i th this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE Changes during 1982 Exchange Arrangement December 9. The buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, were changed from US$1.3210 = Z$l and US$1.3104 - Z$l to US$1.1025 = Z$l and US$1.0937 = Z$ l, respec- tively, representing a depreciation of 16.5 percent in terms of midpoint rates. Payments for Invisibles September 1. Remittances by residents to nonresidents for gift purposes were subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. The limits on remittances remained unchanged. December 1. A maximum limit on foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel during a 12-month period, irrespective of destination, was established for each adult and child under 10 years of age at the equivalent of Z$300 and Z$150, respectively, including an allowance in bank notes amounting to the equivalent of Z$20 a person. The annual allowance could be accumulated for a period up to three years, but could not be granted in advance. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A f n a h g i t s n a A l r e g i a A n i t a u g d n a B r a a d u b 3 A e g r n i t a n A u t s a r i l a A u t s r i a B a h a m a s B h a a r i n B g n a l d a s e h B r a o d a b s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b g r B e i l e z B e n i n B u h t n a B o i l v i a B o s t w a n a B z a r l i B u r m a B u r d n u i C a m n o o r e C a d a n a C p a e V r e d e C e n t a r l A f r i n a c R e p . C d a h A. A c c e p t a n ce of A r t i c le Status A. A c c e p t a n ce of A r t i c le Status 1. A r t i c le V I II status 1. A r t i c le V I II status 2. A r t i c le X IV status 2. A r t i c le X IV status • • • • • • • • • • • - - - - - - B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm i n ed on the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: the bas is of: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar ( «) the U . S. d o l l ar (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u n d s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (ii) p o u nd s ter l ing (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc (III) the F r e n ch franc ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( iv) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (0 s ing le c u r r e n cy (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (ii) c o o p e r a t i ve arrangement (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: (c) M o re f l e x i b le arrangemen t s: ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) ad jus ted a c c o r d i ng to a set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs set of ind i ca to rs (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing (ii) o ther m a n a g ed f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing ( H I) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t ing 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for 2. Separa te e x ch an ge r a t e s5 for some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions some or a ll c ap i t al transac t ions and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es and / or s ome or a ll i n v i s i b l es 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om 3. Import rate(s) d i f ferent f r om export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) export rate(s) 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 4. M o re than one rate for imp o r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts 5. M o re than one rate for expor ts • • • • • • • • • • • — • — — _ • — _ • _ _ _ _ _ _ • _ • • _ _ _ • _ _ • • • • - - - • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - • • • • • • • • - - - - - - - - • - - - - - • - - - - - - - • • • • • • • C. P r e s c r i p t i on of C u r r e n cy - • • • • - - • • • • • - • • • • • D. B i l a t e r al P a ym en ts A r r a n g em e n ts D. B i l a t e r al P a ym en ts A r r a n g em e n ts 1. w i th m em b e rs 1. w i th m em b e rs 2. w i th n o nm em b e rs 2. w i th n o nm em b e rs • • • • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - E. Paym en ts R e s t r i c t i ons E. Paym en ts R e s t r i c t i ons 1. R e s t r i c t i ons on p a ym en ts for 1. R e s t r i c t i ons on p a ym en ts for current t r a n s a c t i o n s6 current t r a n s a c t i o n s6 2. R e s t r i c t ions on p a ym en ts for 2. R e s t r i c t ions on p a ym en ts for cap i tal t r a n s a c t i o n s6 ,7 cap i tal t r a n s a c t i o n s6 ,7 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • F. C o s t -R e l a t ed Impo rt R e s t r i c t i ons F. C o s t -R e l a t ed Impo rt R e s t r i c t i ons 1. Impo rt surcharges 1. Impo rt surcharges 2. A d v a n ce imp o rt depo s i ts 2. A d v a n ce imp o rt depo s i ts • • • • • G. Su r r end er R e q u i r em e nt f or E x p o rt P r o c e eds F or k ey and foo tno t e s, see page 5 2 9. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 C h l i e C a n h i , P p o e l e s ' R e p . C o o l m a b i C o m o r o s C o g n o C o t s a R i a c C p y r u s D e n m r a k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R e b u p i l c E c r o d a u E p y g t E l a S l r o d a v E a u q t a r o i l G n u i a e E t a p o h i i d n a n F i l F n a r e c G n o b a T h e G a m a b i G r e m y n a , F e d . R e p . o f G a n a h G e c e e r G e r a d a n G a u t e m a l a G n u i a e G n u i a e - B i s s u a G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o a r s H g n o K g n o H y r a g n u d n a e c I l • • • • • • - • • • • • • - • • - • • • • • - • • • • • • - - - - - - - - - - - • • • • • • • • - - - • • • • _ • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • • • • • • • - • • • • • • • • • - • - • • • - • • • • - • - • • _ _ • _ _ • _ _ _ _ • • • • • • - • - - - • - • - • - • - - - • • • • - • • • • - - - - - - - - - - - • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • • • • - • • • • - • • - • • • • - • • - - - • - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , s I l a m i c R p e . I I r e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y I o v r y C s a o t a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K a y n e K o r a e K u w a t i L o a P e p o l e ' s D e m . R p e . L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l A. A c c e p t a n ce of A r t i c le Status A. A c c e p t a n ce of A r t i c le Status 1. A r t i c le V I II status 1. A r t i c le V I II status 2. A r t i c le X IV status 2. A r t i c le X IV status • • • • • • B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt B. E x c h a n ge A r r a n g em e nt 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on 1. E x c h a n ge rate d e t e rm in ed on the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: the ba s is o f: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: (a) A p eg to: ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar ( i) the U . S. d o l l ar (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing (11) p o u nd s t e r l ing ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i l l) the F r e n ch franc ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 ( i v) o ther c u r r e n c i e s4 (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (v) a c om p o s i te of cu r r en c i es (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th (b) L i m i t ed f l e x i b i l i ty w i th respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: respect to: ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy ( i) s i n g le c u r r e n cy (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (11) coop e r a t ive arrangement (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: (<?) M o re f l e x i b le a r rangemen ts: ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a ( i) adjusted a c c o r d i ng to a set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs set of ind i c a to rs ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i i) o ther managed f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng ( i l l) ind ep end en t ly f l o a t i ng 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for 2. Separate ex ch ange r a t e s5 for some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions some or a ll c a p i t al t ransac t ions and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es and /or some or a ll i n v i s i b l es 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om 3. Impo rt rate(s) d ifferent f r om expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) expo rt rate(s) 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 4. M o re than one rate for impo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts 5. M o re than one rate for expo r ts • • • • • • • • _ _ • • _ _ _ _ _ _ _ • • • • _ • _ _ _ _ _ • • • • _ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - - • - • - • - • - • • - - - • C. P r e s c r i p t i on of C u r r e n cy D. B i l a t e r al P aym en ts A r r a n g em e n ts D. B i l a t e r al P aym en ts A r r a n g em e n ts 1. w i th m emb e rs 1. w i th m emb e rs 2. w i th nonm emb e rs 2. w i th nonm emb e rs • • - • # • • • • • • E. P aym en ts R e s t r i c t i o ns E. P aym en ts R e s t r i c t i o ns 1. R e s t r i c t i o ns on paymen ts for 1. R e s t r i c t i o ns on paymen ts for cu r rent t r a n s a c t i o n s6 cu r rent t r a n s a c t i o n s6 2. R e s t r i c t i o ns on paymen ts for 2. R e s t r i c t i o ns on paymen ts for c a p i t al t r a n s a c t i o n s6 c a p i t al t r a n s a c t i o n s6 7 7 • • • • • • • • • • " — _ — • F. C o s t -R e l a t ed Impo rt R e s t r i c t i o ns F. C o s t -R e l a t ed Impo rt R e s t r i c t i o ns 1. Impo rt su rcha rges 1. Impo rt su rcha rges 2. A d v a n ce im p o rt depo s i ts 2. A d v a n ce im p o rt depo s i ts • # • • • • • • • • • • • G. Su r render R e q u i r em e nt for E x p o rt P roceeds • — F or k ey and foo tno te s, see page 5 2 9. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M o r o c c o N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a w R a d n a S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r d a n e i s e n S o a T o m e d n a P i r e p c n i S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e r o p a g n S i r e o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a • • • • - • • • • - - • • - • • • • - • • • - • • - • • • - • • • • - • • - • • - • • • - - - - - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • • - - • • - • • • - - - • • - - • - - • • - • • • • • - • - • - - • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • _ • • • • • • • • • • • • 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Ar t ic le Status 1 . Article V I II s ta tus 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: ( /) the U .S. dollar 00 pound sterling 077) the French f ranc O'v) other currencies4 O) a composite of currenc ies (b} Limited f l e x i b i l i ty w i th respect to: 0) single currency 07) cooperative arrangement (c) More f lex ib le arrangements: 0) adjusted according to a set of indicators 07) other managed f loa t ing 077) independen t ly f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rates5 for some or all capital t ransac t ions and/or some or all inv i s ib les 3. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 4. More than one rate for imports 5 . More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. B i la teral Paymen ts Arrangemen ts 1 . w i th members 2. w i th nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1 . Restrictions on paymen ts for current transactions6 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for capital transactions6 7 F. Cost-Related Import Res tr ic t ions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requ irement for Export Proceeds COcj < J3 3 O CO - C 'eo OH CO co^4c CO co C CO T3 3 CO S u i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e Q, * £> Z < C 2 >> CO T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a o § T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a >> 1 CO•o G <?3 CUO D U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m Ica CO 73 B 'S D U e p p r V o t l a - >> CO 3 00 5 V a u n a t u D - V e u z e n e l a | - CO 0>> n - W s e t e r n S a m a o | - - 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 